I I WILL GO
AHEAD AND CALL THIS MEETING TO
ORDER.
WELCOME EVERYONE TO THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
MEETING ON WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 15 AT 4:00 PM.
PLEASE NOTE TO EVERYONE AT THIS
MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST LIVE
ON TTN CABLE CHANNEL 16 AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE THEN ONLINE
TODAY TO WATCH C10 AND TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT THIS
AFTERNOON PLEASE CALL TOLL FREE
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN OR
EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT
EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE AND
INTERMEETING AND NINE ONE NINE
EIGHT SIX SEVEN THREE ONE FOUR
FIVE FIVE.
NEXT WE HAVE ROLL CALL SO
KENNEDY IS GOING TO GO AROUND
AND CALL EVERYONE NAMED FROM
ROLL CALL IF YOU COULD PLEASE
WHEN YOUR NAME IS CALLED PLEASE
ON MUTE AND SAY YOUR NAME AND
WHERE YOU'RE COMING FROM TODAY
.
>> THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
KENNEDY THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
SO LET'S DO READY LET'S GET
READY FOR ROLL CALL FIRST CHAIR
DAMAN OH YES.
GOOD AFTERNOON CHAIR ZACH DAMAN
COMING TO YOU FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN WASHTENAW COUNTY.
>> THANK YOU VICE CHAIR KEILLER
LIKE YOU'RE COMING FROM ANN
ARBOR WARD FIVE WAUKESHA COUNTY
.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
WELCOME.
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON MATTHEW
SOLOMON ANN ARBOR MICHIGAN
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER HOGGINS
.
>> COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE
COMMISSIONER PACKARD
I THINK
COMMISSIONER PACKARD MY
APARTMENT ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH COMMISSIONER
BEWES COMMISSIONER AND
ENCUMBERING LOW COMMISSIONER
HANK BAUER HERE COME IN FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, COMMISSIONER
CONRADE ON A COCAINE RIDE FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU.
AND ONE MORE TIME, COMMISSIONER
OZARK SORRY I TOOK A LONG TIME
TO RESUME TO LET ME IN I
KATHLEEN MOSADDEQ FLYING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> WE HAVE A CALL.
THANK YOU.
GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
REALLY APPRECIATE EVERYONE FOR
BEING HERE.
WE ARE NOW AT THE TIME FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT JUST TO LET
EVERYONE KNOW FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT YOU ARE A THREE MINUTES
PER SPEAKER, KENNEDY DO WE HAVE
ANYONE ON FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
THIS AFTERNOON PERSONALLY AT
THIS TIME WE HAVE NO ONE ON FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO THE NEXT POINT.
WE DO HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S AGENDA AND ALL
OF YOU SHOULD RECEIVED A COPY
OF THE AGENDA AHEAD OF THE
MEETING ELECTRONICALLY.
IF YOU HAVE NOT, PLEASE LET
MYSELF KENNEDY KNOW AND WE CAN
GET YOU A COPY OF THE AGENDA AT
THIS TIME.
OTHERWISE IS THERE A MOTION TO
APPROVE TODAY'S AGENDA, OUR
MOVE TO APPROVE ALL RIGHT,
LARRY MOVES TO APPROVE.
IS THERE A SECOND THIS IS
KATHLEEN.
>> I'LL SECOND.
THANK YOU, KATHLEEN.
>> I'M ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING TODAY'S AGENDA
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I I
THANK YOU.
>> I THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> I'M NEXT WE MOVE TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE MEETING MINUTES
FROM SEPTEMBER AND I WANT TO
THANK OUR VICE CHAIRMAN FOR
RUNNING OUR MEETING AND DOING A
WONDERFUL JOB THERE.
THE MEETING SHOULD BE WITHIN
OUR AGENDA ELECTRONICALLY AND
YOU CAN VIEW THEM THERE IF
THERE ARE ANY AMENDMENTS AND OR
CORRECTIONS TO THE MEETING
MINUTES.
YOU CAN MENTION THAT NOW IF
THERE IS NOT, IS THERE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES
FROM SEPTEMBER?
I'LL MOVE TO APPROVE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
IS THERE A SECOND TO APPROVE
THE MEETING MINUTES?
>> I WILL SECOND TO THANK YOU,
COMMISSIONER PACARD SECONDS ALL
IN FAVOR OF APPROVING A MEETING
MINUTES FROM SEPTEMBER PLEASE
ON MUTE AND SAY AY AY AY AY.
THANK YOU.
THE MEETING MINUTES ARE
APPROVED.
NEXT WE'RE GOING TO GO AHEAD
AND MOVE TO THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH KENNEDY COMING,
KENNEDY I HEY EVERYONE.
>> I HOPE YOU ALL ARE DOING
WELL AND HAVING A WONDERFUL
WEDNESDAY.
I CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE ANY
UPDATE OR REPORT AS ALWAYS,
PLEASE CHECK YOUR COMMUNICATE.
PLEASE CHECK YOUR EMAIL FOR ANY
COMMISSION COMMUNICATE THAT I
WILL SEND THEM OUT TO YOU ALL
FOR THIS MEETING JUST TO LET
YOU ALL KNOW UNDER THE AGENDA
WE DO HAVE IF YOU DID SEE SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE BYLAWS,
THE BYLAWS ARE ATTACHED IN THE
MEETING PACKET SO IF YOU HADN'T
HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT THEM,
PLEASE GO TO THE MEETING PACKET
AND YOU CAN CLICK ON THE FILE
THERE AND THEY ARE THERE.
AND LASTLY, THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR RECENTLY JUST ANNOUNCED
THAT THE DIRECTOR
OF COMMUNICATION THAT POSITION
HAS BEEN FILLED.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED TO HAVE A
NEW DIRECTOR COME ON BOARD AND
WE LOOK FORWARD TO HIM STARTING
WITHIN THE UPCOMING AND THAT'S
ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
DEFINITELY LOOK FORWARD TO
CONNECTING WITH YOU DIRECTOR
OF COMMUNICATIONS AND GLAD THAT
THAT POSITION HAS BEEN FILLED
AND JUST WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT
OUT TO THE LONG TIME DIRECTOR
OF COMMUNICATION LISA WAYNE
DRASH FOR ALL OF YOUR
CONTRIBUTION AND ALL OF YOUR
SERVICE TO THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
NEXT TIME WE MOVE ON TO OUR
CITY COUNCIL UPDATE REPORT WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER ALICIA GARZA
EDWYN AND COUNCIL MEMBER ALWAYS
GOOD TO SEE YOU.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON AND WELCOME.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
THANKS.
THANKS AND THANKS FOR BEING
WITH ME TOO.
I WAS TEACHING A NIGHT CLASS UP
UNTIL LAST WEEK SO I HAVE NOT
BEEN ABLE TO COME TO KODAI DUE
TO THE TIME CONFLICT AND THIS
IS MY FIRST MEETING SINCE WE
STARTED AGAIN AFTER THE SUMMER
SO IT'S GREAT TO BE HERE.
SOME OF THE I MEAN YOU KNOW I'M
GOING TO DO A LOT OF LISTENING
TODAY AND HEAR ABOUT WHAT SORT
OF ISSUES ARE COMING UP FOR YOU
GUYS JUST GET CAUGHT UP TO
SPEED THEM.
I THINK SOME OF THE MOST
PRESSING THINGS THAT ARE ON MY
AGENDA
RIGHT NOW ARE WE'RE
MOVING INTO THE THIRD PHASE
OF THE COMPREHENSIBLY USE PLAN
ALSO KNOWN AS THE CLUB CLUB AND
THERE IS CITY COUNCIL IS
BASICALLY THIS IS THIS IS A
STRATEGIC PLANNING DOCUMENT
THAT THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
REQUIRES US TO MAKE.
IT DOES NOT CHANGE ZONING IN
AND OF ITSELF.
THAT HAPPENS LATER AND IT DOES
INVOLVE COMMUNITY INPUT AND
THIS ACTUAL CURRENT LEVEL PLAN
IS NOW THERE'S GOING TO BE SIX
DAYS OF COMMUNITY INPUT WHICH
WILL BEGIN AFTER COUNCIL
APPROVES IF IT GETS APPROVED AT
THE NEXT COUNCIL MEETING.
SO SIXTY THREE DAYS PEOPLE CAN
COME IN AND GIVE COMMENT.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
HAS REALLY STOOD OUT TO ME IS
AND IT WAS RAISED ACTUALLY AT A
COFFEE HOUR BY ONE OF MY
CONSTITUENT AS RECENTLY AS
ACCESSIBILITY IS MENTIONED IN A
VERY VAGUE AND GENERAL WAY AND
IT'S NOT INTEGRATED OR
EXPLAINED MEANINGFULLY.
SO I DO HAVE A MEETING WITH
MICHELLE BERNARD OF PLANNING
NEXT.
IT'S ACTUALLY TOMORROW IT WAS
ALMOST THE NEXT THURSDAY.
WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT SOME
OF THESE ISSUES.
IF ANY OF YOU HAVE INTERESTS
OF ANY OF THIS OR YOU'VE TAKEN
A LOOK THE PLAN AND U.S. ACCESS
ISSUES, IT'S SUPER HELPFUL TO
HAVE THAT WRITTEN DOWN AND I
COULD EVEN TRY TO SCHEDULE SOME
ADDITIONAL MEETINGS WITH
PLANNING.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
THEY HEAR FROM OUR COMMUNITY
AND PEOPLE WITH VARIOUS
DISABILITIES.
SO THAT IS THAT IS ONE OF THE
BIGGEST THINGS AT THE TOP OF MY
LIST RIGHT NOW.
>> I THINK OTHER THINGS THAT
I'VE TRIED TO LOOK INTO THAT
ARE A LITTLE BIT MORE CREATIVE
IS I'VE HEARD OF CITIES THAT
THIS IS NOW SHIFTING TOPIC TO
TO TO PARKING.
I'VE HEARD OF CITIES THAT USE
AN APP THAT ALLOW ANY PARKING
SPOT TO BE AN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING SPOT AND I AM GOING TO
RAISE THAT TO THE CITY AND ALSO
THE CITY OF GRAND RAPIDS HAS A
PROCESS WHERE DEVELOPMENT IS
BEING PROPOSED.
THEY HAVE TO CONSULT WITH A
LOCAL DISABILITY ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATION THAT SPECIALIZES
IN ACCESSIBLE DESIGN.
SO LIKE IMAGINE YOU KNOW,
DEVELOPER WANTS TO BUILD
SOMETHING AND THEY FOR EXAMPLE,
MEET WITH DISABILITY NETWORK OR
ANOTHER ORGANIZATION.
>> I'M LOOKING INTO ALSO HOW DO
WE PROPOSE THAT COULD THAT EVEN
BE SOMETHING THAT'S PART OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
RIGHT.
SO THAT IS AN ACTUAL PART
OF PROCESS INSTEAD OF US KIND
OF AFTER THE FACT SAYING HEY
GUYS, WHAT HAVE BEEN GREAT?
>> SO A FEW THINGS I'M WORKING
ON BUT HAPPY TO TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS ANSWER NO THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS THAT I REALLY
APPRECIATE NOT ONLY THE
RESOURCE THAT YOU MENTIONED
WITH PARKING BUT THEN ALSO THE
PROCESSES OF GRAND RAPIDS AND I
HOPE THAT YEAH, ALL OF US CAN
STAY IN THE LOOP ON THAT AND
AND OBVIOUSLY MYSELF, YOU KNOW,
IF THERE'S ANYTHING I CAN HELP
YOU WITH THERE, PLEASE KEEP ME
IN THE LOOP.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS SO CANDIDLY IF YOU
WANT TO CALL ON THEM AS NEEDED.
THANK THE COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
.
I BELIEVE THAT KATHLEEN WAS
FIRST I APOLOGIZE.
COMMISSIONER MOTZA.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON.
MY QUESTION IS ABOUT THE FIRST
SUBJECT THAT YOU TALKED ABOUT
WITH REGARDS TO PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> THE VOTE FOR CITY COUNCIL IS
COMING UP NEXT MONDAY I GUESS
IS THERE A WAY IF THAT IF IT IS
APPROVED BY COUNCIL, COULD WE
GET A COPY OF THE DOCUMENT TO
REVIEW IT?
>> LIKE COULD KENNEDY USE THAT
DOCUMENT TO CONTINUE TO HAVE
HER SEND IT TO US?
>> YES, WE COULD DEFINITELY DO
THAT.
I'M TRYING TO THINK ABOUT IF
IT'S PUBLICLY AVAILABLE RIGHT
NOW.
BUT YOU'RE SAYING THE DRAFT
THAT IS APPROVED ON MONDAY
NIGHT BECAUSE YOU WERE SAYING
THAT YOUR CONSTITUENT YOU MET
WITH SAID THAT IT DOESN'T
CONTAIN REALLY SOLID ACCESSIBLE
LANGUAGE.
SO I WOULD LOVE TO LOOK AT THE
DOCUMENT MYSELF TO SEE REALLY
WHAT'S THERE.
>> YEAH, I MEAN WE COULD EVEN I
THINK IT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL
EVEN TO MAIL IT OUT RIGHT NOW
WHAT WE DO HAVE AND SO WHAT IT
CURRENTLY HAS IS LIKE A
PARAGRAPH UNACCESSIBLE CITY AND
I THINK MAYBE IT MENTIONS
UNIVERSAL DESIGN BUT I WANT TO
FIND OUT LIKE CAN WE BE MORE
SPECIFIC?
CAN WE BE MORE INTENTIONAL?
CAN WE DEFINE IT AND THEY MAY
COME BACK AND SAY THAT DOESN'T
ACTUALLY BELONG HERE, MAYBE
BELONG SOMEWHERE ELSE BUT I
WANT TO GET THE CONVERSATION
STARTED SO I THINK WE CAN EVEN
GET THE COPY THE PRESENT COPY
TO YOU NOW WOULD BE GREAT
BECAUSE I THINK IN THE LONG RUN
IF WE AS THE COMMISSION CAN
ALSO SUPPORT THIS INITIATIVE
BECAUSE I AGREE IT'S VERY
CONCERNING IF A DOCUMENT IS
VAGUE BECAUSE THEN THAT MEANS
THERE'S A LOT OF OPPORTUNITY OR
A LOT OF MISSED OPPORTUNITIES
BECAUSE IT'S NOT BEING THOUGHT
OF IN THE FOREFRONT.
SO THANKS FOR BRINGING IT TO
OUR ATTENTION.
>> YEAH.
AND KENNEDY, WOULD YOU MIND
SENDING A COPY TO THE ENTIRE
COMMISSION?
YES, I'M ABLE TO DO THAT.
ARE YOU ABLE TO SEND IT TO ME
VIA EMAIL ME DO YOU WANT ME TO
SEND IT TO YOU VIA EMAIL?
>> YEAH AND THAT WAY I CAN SEND
IT TO THE COMMISSION OK.
>> YEAH LET ME SEE THE LATEST
THAT IS PUBLISHED BY YEP I CAN
DO THAT OK THANK YOU.
NEXT I SAW HAND GO AWAY
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON AND THEN COMMISSIONER
GOSSAGE.
>> YEAH I JUST WANTED TO
AMPLIFY AND KIND OF UNDERSCORE
CONCERNS ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY
WITH THESE NEW DEVELOPMENTS
BECAUSE ANECDOTALLY THE
EVIDENCE SUGGESTS THAT PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES ARE A VERY
DISTANT AFTERTHOUGHT WHEN IT
COMES TO NEW DEVELOPMENT.
AND SO I THINK WE NEED TO BE
REMINDING OUR LEADERSHIP TIME
AND TIME AGAIN THAT WE NEED TO
BE PART OF THIS CIRCUIT.
WE DON'T WANT TO BE BROUGHT ON
AS A RUBBER STAMP WHICH WE HAVE
BEEN BROUGHT ON COUNTLESS TIMES
BEFORE AND THAT WE NEED TO HOLD
OUR CITY ACCOUNTABLE FOR WHAT
IS FRANKLY A LACK
OF ACCESSIBILITY IN MANY AREAS
AND I BELIEVE AGAIN ANECDOTALLY
THIS EXTENDS TO MUCH OF THE NEW
DEVELOPMENT THAT IT'S NOT
REALLY THOUGHT AS FULLY
INCLUSIVE AND I FEEL IT'S OUR
ROLE TO BE HELPING THAT THESE
INITIATIVES HELPING TO FLAG
ISSUES BEFORE WE GET TO THE
CONSTRUCTION STAGE, ET CETERA.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT,
COMMISSIONER SONAND.
AND SO YOU KNOW, TOMORROW I'M
GOING TO BRING UP A FEW THINGS
THAT WILL BE THE PLAN AND ONE
WILL BE THAT PROCESS LIKE GRAND
RAPIDS EMPLOYEE IS ABOUT
DEVELOPMENT AND I MAY NEED YOUR
GUYS HELP IN TERMS OF LIKE IT
MIGHT BE A RESOLUTION.
IT MAY BE THAT YOU GUYS ARE
CONTACTING YOUR COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
YOU COME TO A MEETING AS BEST
YOU CAN EVEN IF IT'S VIRTUAL IT
DOES MAKE A DIFFERENCE BECAUSE
I'M JUST ONE VOICE.
>> SO AND THE CITY I THINK THEY
THEY ARE REALLY OPEN AND THEY
WANT TO BE AS SUCCESSFUL AS
POSSIBLE BUT LIKE PEOPLE JUST
AREN'T TAUGHT THIS AND PEOPLE
AREN'T TAUGHT ABOUT OUT.
YOU KNOW, I THINK DISABILITY
JUSTICE IN THE WAY THAT WE THAT
WE KNOW WHAT NEEDS TO BE
IMPORTANT.
>> SO THANKS FOR IT.
WE RELY ON YOUR VOICE AND WE
APPRECIATE YOUR VOICE AND WE'RE
GRATEFUL THAT YOU'RE DEEPLY
INVESTED IN THIS COMMISSION.
ARE THERE STRATEGIC MEETINGS
THAT WE HAVE PUT ON OUR
CALENDARS WHERE WE CAN YOU
RAISE OUR VOICES ON THESE
ISSUES?
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT YOU KNOW,
I JUST SENT THE LINK THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
LINK TO KENNEDY.
>> I JUST ADDED I'M GOING TO
SEND THAT OUT RIGHT NOW AFTER A
REVIEW AND IF WE FEEL LIKE IT'S
WORKING AND WE CAN DO IT, WE
COULD ALSO HAVE A MEETING
WITHOUT BREAKING QUORUM WITH A
FEW MEMBERS OF PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT MIGHT BE EVEN
MORE EFFECTIVE.
>> I DON'T THINK ABOUT YOU
KNOW, IF WE DON'T FEEL LIKE
WE'RE BEING HEARD THEN WE GO
AND WE VOICE IT AT A MEETING
JUST SO WE KIND OF ARE
STRATEGIC ABOUT OUR ASKS.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU,
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
COMMISSIONER SAUSAGE, I THANK
YOU FOR THE WORK YOU'RE DOING
AROUND THIS ISSUE.
>> IT IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
I WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW I'M
FAIRLY CERTAIN THE CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING IN GRAND
RAPIDS WAS INVOLVED WITH THAT
WORK THAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
IN GRAND RAPIDS.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE PLEASE
DON'T HESITATE TO REACH OUT TO
ME AND I'D BE HAPPY TO TO WORK
WITH THEM OR TALK WITH THEM TO
SEE WHAT WE CAN DO TO CONTINUE
TO SUPPORT YOU AND YOUR WORK.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I ACTUALLY FOUND THIS OUT AT AN
EVENT THAT I WENT TO AROUND
THIS I THINK IT WAS ACTUALLY IS
RACHEL HAWKINS AND COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS NOW HER PARENTS HELP TO
ENDOW A CHAIR OF DISABILITY
JUSTICE AT THE SCHOOL OF SOCIAL
WORK RECENTLY AND I WENT TO
YEAH I WENT TO THE CELEBRATION
AND I MET SOMEONE WHO WAS
YOU'RE A CITY COUNCIL MEMBER.
I'M FROM GRAND RAPIDS AND I
WORK I THINK FOR THEIR CEO AND
WE DO THIS PROCESS THAT'S
ACTUALLY BEEN SUPER HELPFUL.
>> AND I WAS LIKE DING LIKE
THAT'S AMAZING AND WE SHOULD DO
THAT HERE SO YOU KNOW, CAN'T
MAKE PROMISES.
BUT I WANT TO START THE
CONVERSATION AND THEN WE CAN
LAY OUT A PLAN TOGETHER AND
START TO STRATEGIZE ADVOCACY IF
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE NEED.
>> PERFECT SHOT.
I AM HERE I JUST WASN'T
PROMOTED TO PANELIST YET BUT I
AM HERE I DIDN'T HEAR THE WHOLE
THING BECAUSE I CUT OFF BUT
WERE THERE ADDITIONAL THINGS
THAT YOU WERE AT?
I HEARD YOU ASKED MY NAME BUT I
COULDN'T RESPOND.
>> NO, NO I WAS JUST SAYING
THAT YOU KNOW THE EVENT BECAUSE
OF THE EVENT THAT HAPPENED WITH
YOUR PARENTS ENDOWING THE CHAIR
AND DISABILITY JUSTICE RESEARCH
AT THE SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK
BECAUSE OF THAT EVENT I MET
SOMEONE WHO WORKS FOR THE
SEATTLE AND GRAND RAPIDS AND
TOLD ME ABOUT THE PROCESS THEIR
CITY ENGAGES IN WHERE EVERY
DEVELOPMENT THAT COMES TO CITY
IF APPROVED HAS TO MEET WITH
THE CIO TO JUST FOR THEM TO YOU
KNOW, TO GET MORE PEOPLE TO
EVALUATE IT FOR ACCESSIBLE DAY
WHICH I WAS LIKE THAT IS SUCH A
GOOD IDEA.
>> I AGREE.
I THINK
THAT'S THAT WOULD BE A
WONDERFUL IMPROVEMENT AND I
THINK IT WOULD ADDRESS
MATTHEW'S CONCERN OF WHAT HE
WAS SAYING BEFORE ABOUT KIND
OF DISABILITY COMMISSION BEING
AN AFTERTHOUGHT INSTEAD OF AN
ACTIVE PART IN THE PROCESS TO
MAKE YOU KNOW, MAKE THINGS, YOU
KNOW, MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR
EVERYONE BECAUSE EVERYONE WON'T
NEED YOU KNOW, THESE IT SHOULD
BE UNIVERSAL DESIGN NOT YOU
KNOW, NOT JUST FOCUSED ON
MAKING IT A MINIMUM AMOUNT
OF ACCESSIBILITY.
>> SO COMMISSIONER CONRAD,
THANKS FOR THAT.
>> MR. HAWKINS.
MR. CONRAD.
YEAH.
HI, SO I WAS JUST REMEMBERING
THAT LAST SPRING SOMEONE CAME
TO THIS COMMISSION TO ASK FOR
IDEAS IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN BUT
THEN FOUND OUT THAT IT WASN'T
SCREENWRITER ACCESSIBLE AND SO
THEN INSTEAD ASKED FOR OUR
FEEDBACK ON HOW TO MAKE IT
SCREENWRITER ACCESSIBLE SO WE
WEREN'T GIVEN A CHANCE TO GIVE
OUR IDEAS ON IT.
>> SO I'M GLAD THAT YOU'RE
ASKING US NOW BUT I WONDERED IF
THERE'S ANY UPDATES ON, YOU
KNOW, WHETHER THE PLAN IS BEING
MADE MORE TECHNICALLY
ACCESSIBLE.
AND THEN I ALSO WONDERED IF YOU
COULD TELL US WHAT STAGE THE
PLAN IS IN.
>> SO WE HAVE KIND OF THAT
CONTEXT AS WE'RE TRYING TO COME
UP WITH IDEAS AND FEEDBACK.
YEAH.
SO IT IT IS IN THE FINAL STAGE
SO THAT MEANS THAT IT WOULD GO
FOR A VOTE TO CITY COUNCIL ON
MONDAY AND OUR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVES IT.
IT STARTS THE CLOCK.
SIXTY THREE DAY PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD SO THEN INPUT CAN BE
RECEIVED FROM THE PUBLIC AND
THEN AFTER YOU KNOW I BELIEVE
THAT FINAL CHANGES WOULD BE
MADE AND THEN AFTER THAT IS
WHEN IF IT'S FINALLY APPROVED
WE WOULD HAVE PARTS OF ZONING
THAT GET VOTED ON AND THAT ALSO
INVOLVES THE PUBLIC PROVIDING
INPUT.
>> SO IT'S REALLY IN THE FINAL
STAGES RIGHT NOW BUT I DON'T
THINK IT'S TOO LATE AT ALL FOR
US TO BE GIVING FEEDBACK AND I
THINK IT'S ESSENTIAL THAT WE
DO.
>> BUT COMMISSIONER CONRAD,
THANK YOU FOR RAISING UP THAT
IMPORTANT ISSUE ABOUT JUST
BEING SCREEN READER IN IT BEING
ACCESSIBLE AND I THOUGHT THAT
THEY HAD MADE SCREENWRITER
COMPATIBLE BUT UNFORTUNATELY I
DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT.
JENNA TRYING TO YOU KNOW, IF
THEY HAVE MADE AND SCREENWRITER
ACCESSIBLE I KNOW OR FROM YEAH.
THEY HAD SOME OF US FROM THE
COMMISSION THAT THE FOLKS THAT
THEY CONTRACTED WITH WERE ABLE
TO FIX AND IT SEEMS LIKE MOST
OF THEM EXCEPT SOME OF THE
VISUALS I KNOW IT'S NOT ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT BUT I THINK
ABOUT LIKE EIGHT OF THE MAYBE
TEN OR SO BULLET POINTS FOR
CONCERN THAT I SAW WERE
SUPPOSEDLY ADDRESSED.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
AND I JUST SENT A OH I JUST
WANTED TO WRAP UP AND SAY I
JUST SENT A LINK THAT I FOUND
ON THE ENGAGE WEBSITE IS THAT
ONE SCREEN READER ACCESSIBLE?
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYONE ON THIS COMMISSION CAN
CAN HAVE ACCESS TO IT.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU KNOW THAT
QUESTION THE ANSWER TO MY
QUESTION BUT I THINK THAT WOULD
BE THE DOCUMENT THAT THEY SORT
OF RECEIVED FROM THE COMPANY.
>> I DON'T THINK IT WOULD BE
DIFFERENT FROM THE ONE THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN EDITED.
>> SO AS FAR AS I KNOW OK, OK.
MR. CONRAD, PLEASE KEEP US
UPDATED IF THAT'S NOT THE CASE
OR ANYONE ELSE.
>> THANKS FOR FIRST TIME.
I JUST HAD ONE FOR FINAL
QUESTION I GUESS WHICH IS AS
YOU I'M SURE KNOW THERE'S A
KIND OF GRASSROOTS MOVEMENT TO
PAUSE THE PLAN AND BECAUSE SOME
ARGUE THAT NONE INSUFFICIENT
AMOUNT OF COMMUNITY INPUT HAS
BEEN ON BOARDED, HOW IS CITY
COUNCIL RESPONDED TO THE CALL
TO QUOTE UNQUOTE PAUSE A PLAN?
>> A GREAT QUESTION,
COMMISSIONER.
SO ON.
AND SO THERE ARE A LOT OF THERE
IS KIND OF A MOBILIZED EFFORT
AGAINST THE PLAN.
CALL THE PLAN GROUP AND ONE
OF THEIR COMPLAINTS IS THAT
THERE HASN'T BEEN A LOT
OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
ONE THING I WILL SAY IS THAT
THE STATE WE HAVE GOT WE'D HAVE
GONE ABOVE AND BEYOND WHAT THE
STATE REQUIRES.
IT DOESN'T MEAN IT'S ALL BEEN
ACCESSIBLE IN TERMS
OF COMMUNICATION OR ENGAGEMENT
AND I ALSO THINK THAT DURING
THIS TIME UP UNTIL TODAY WE'VE
NOT HAD TO COMMUNICATIONS
DIRECTOR AND I THINK THAT THE
CITY WAS STRUGGLE STRUGGLING TO
ENGAGE PEOPLE IN A VERY
ACCESSIBLE WAY.
SO YOU KNOW, WHEN I WAS
ACCESSIBLE I MEAN LANGUAGE THAT
WAS REALLY COMPLEX TOWN HALLS I
THINK WHERE PEOPLE DIDN'T FULLY
UNDERSTAND WHAT WAS BEING
DISCUSSED.
>> SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
KEPT ASKING FOR FOR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR IS CAN WE RELEASE
SOME MORE PUBLIC EDUCATION?
CAN PEOPLE REALLY CAN CAN WE DO
SOME SHE JUST KIND OF COMBATING
SOME OF THE A LOT OF IT WAS NOT
BASED IN FACT A LOT OF WHAT IS
BEING SAID BY THE PERCEPTION
PLAN GROUP IS NOT BASED IN FACT
AND CAN WE CAN WE DISPUTE THOSE
CLAIMS?
I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE NEW
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR IS
WORKING ON.
SEE, WAS IT A PAUSE IN THIS
PROCESS AT THIS TIME?
>> NO, NOT AT ALL.
WE NEED THAT HOUSING AND WITH
HAVING, YOU KNOW, THE COST
OF HOUSING RISING AT AN
ASTRONOMICAL RATE, HAVING THE
FASTEST RISING RATE
OF HOMELESSNESS WE'VE EVER
EXPERIENCED, WE WE NEED MORE
HOUSING.
WE DEFINITELY NEED MORE HOUSING
AND I THINK THIS HAS BEEN DONE
IN A THOUGHTFUL WAY.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK TO OTHER
CITIES THAT HAVE EXPERIENCED
SIMILAR GROWTH AND WHO
IMPLEMENTED PLANS LIKE THIS
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO BRING DOWN
EVENTUALLY THE COST OF HOUSING.
>> BUT I DO THINK THAT THERE IS
A LOT OF MISINFORMATION OUT
THERE LIKE PEOPLE TRULY BELIEVE
THAT IF THEY ARE IN A NEXT TO A
TRANSITION ZONE THEY ARE GOING
TO SEE SKYSCRAPERS NEXT TO
THEIR HOMES.
>> IT'S SIMPLY NOT TRUE.
WE HAVE REQUIREMENTS IN THE
PLAN THAT STIPULATES THAT A
BUILDING ABOVE THREE STORES
CANNOT BE SOLD SOME DISTANCE
AWAY.
I BELIEVE ONE FIFTY FEET OR
MAYBE MORE FROM A SINGLE FAMILY
ZONE OR A SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCE.
OTHER OTHER THINGS LIKE THAT.
>> I HOPE THAT ANSWER THE
QUESTION I LOOK FORWARD TO
REVIEWING THE DOCUMENT.
I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
WILLINGNESS TO SHARE WITH THE
COMMISSION.
>> THAT'LL BE A REALLY
INTERESTING READING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
QUESTION.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU AGAIN
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR ALL OF YOUR
EFFORTS, ALL OF YOUR WORK.
WE REALLY DO APPRECIATE YOUR
COLLABORATION AND BEING ABLE TO
WORK WITH YOU.
DEFINITELY KEEP ALL OF US
POSTED AS THINGS DEVELOP AND WE
WILL HELP YOU AS NEEDED.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE ALL OF YOUR WORK
TRULY SO I MAY BE IN TOUCH AND
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO EMAIL ME IF
YOU HAVE READ THE PLAN AND YOU
HAVE ANY SUGGESTIONS SO I CAN
TAKE IT EVEN IF IT'S NOT BY
TOMORROW MORNING IF IT'S OVER
THE NEXT FEW WEEKS JUST EMAIL
IT TO ME.
THANK YOU.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
MOVING ON IF WE MAY TO THE
ALL RIGHT.
SPECIAL PRESENTATION PORTION
MOVING ON IF WE MAY TO THE
OF OUR MEETING.
SPECIAL PRESENTATION PORTION
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU ALL
OF OUR MEETING.
KNOW THAT WE DID HAVE AN
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU ALL
ADJUSTMENT TO TODAY'S AGENDA.
KNOW THAT WE DID HAVE AN
THE MICHIGAN CLIMATE ACTION
ADJUSTMENT TO TODAY'S AGENDA.
PRESENTATION WILL NOT BE
THE MICHIGAN CLIMATE ACTION
HAPPENING TODAY BUT WE WILL
PRESENTATION WILL NOT BE
RESCHEDULE THAT FOR A LATER
HAPPENING TODAY BUT WE WILL
DATE.
RESCHEDULE THAT FOR A LATER
>> SO WE WILL GO AHEAD AND MOVE
DATE.
ON TO BEST BUDDIES OF MICHIGAN.
>> SO WE WILL GO AHEAD AND MOVE
AND I WANT TO THANK LYDIA GOF
ON TO BEST BUDDIES OF MICHIGAN.
FOR JOINING US FROM BEST
AND I WANT TO THANK LYDIA GOF
BUDDIES.
FOR JOINING US FROM BEST
AND GOOD AFTERNOON, LYDIA.
BUDDIES.
>> THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
AND GOOD AFTERNOON, LYDIA.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
>> THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
ME.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
IS SUPER GRATEFUL FOR THE
ME.
OPPORTUNITY TO BE HERE.
IS SUPER GRATEFUL FOR THE
I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD AND SHARE
OPPORTUNITY TO BE HERE.
MY SCREEN AND SOME SLIDES
I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD AND SHARE
PREPARED TODAY WITH A COUPLE
MY SCREEN AND SOME SLIDES
OF VIDEOS EMBEDDED BUT AGAIN SO
PREPARED TODAY WITH A COUPLE
THANKFUL TO BE HERE.
OF VIDEOS EMBEDDED BUT AGAIN SO
I MAKE THIS FULL SCREEN.
THANKFUL TO BE HERE.
ALL RIGHT.
I MAKE THIS FULL SCREEN.
SO AS I MENTIONED MY NAME IS
ALL RIGHT.
LYDIA GOFF AND I AM THE LEAD
SO AS I MENTIONED MY NAME IS
PROGRAM MANAGER OF BEST BUDDIES
LYDIA GOFF AND I AM THE LEAD
MICHIGAN AND BASED IN ANN ARBOR
PROGRAM MANAGER OF BEST BUDDIES
TO GO BLUE.
MICHIGAN AND BASED IN ANN ARBOR
AND THEN THE REST OF MY TEAM
TO GO BLUE.
ARE SMALL BUT MY TEAM HERE ARE
AND THEN THE REST OF MY TEAM
BEST BUDDIES MICHIGAN MY
ARE SMALL BUT MY TEAM HERE ARE
SUPERVISOR IS JOHN QUINCY WHO
BEST BUDDIES MICHIGAN MY
IS OUR STATE'S DIRECTOR
SUPERVISOR IS JOHN QUINCY WHO
OF MISSION ADVANCEMENT WHICH
IS OUR STATE'S DIRECTOR
OVERSEES OUR FUNDRAISING AND
OF MISSION ADVANCEMENT WHICH
DEVELOPMENT AND THEN OUR OTHER
OVERSEES OUR FUNDRAISING AND
COLLEAGUE IS NATALIE D'ANGELO
DEVELOPMENT AND THEN OUR OTHER
WHO IS OUR LEAD EMPLOYMENT
COLLEAGUE IS NATALIE D'ANGELO
CONSULTANT MANAGING OUR
WHO IS OUR LEAD EMPLOYMENT
INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
CONSULTANT MANAGING OUR
CURRENTLY SERVING OAKLAND WAYNE
INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
AND MACOMB COUNTY IS ALL RIGHT
CURRENTLY SERVING OAKLAND WAYNE
.
AND MACOMB COUNTY IS ALL RIGHT
SO SOME OF YOU MAY NOT BE
.
FAMILIAR WITH BEST BUDDIES SO
SO SOME OF YOU MAY NOT BE
I'M GOING TO BE GIVING AN
FAMILIAR WITH BEST BUDDIES SO
OVERVIEW OF OUR OVERALL
I'M GOING TO BE GIVING AN
ORGANIZATION AND THEN A DEEPER
OVERVIEW OF OUR OVERALL
DOVE OF WHAT WE HAVE GOING ON
ORGANIZATION AND THEN A DEEPER
HERE IN MICHIGAN AND EVEN MORE
DOVE OF WHAT WE HAVE GOING ON
SPECIFICALLY IN WASHINGTON
HERE IN MICHIGAN AND EVEN MORE
COUNTY.
SPECIFICALLY IN WASHINGTON
SO WE ARE AN INTERNATIONAL
COUNTY.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION AND OUR
SO WE ARE AN INTERNATIONAL
MISSION IS TO ESTABLISH A
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION AND OUR
GLOBAL VOLUNTEER MOVEMENT THAT
MISSION IS TO ESTABLISH A
CREATES OPPORTUNITIES FOR
GLOBAL VOLUNTEER MOVEMENT THAT
ONE-TO-ONE FRIENDSHIPS,
CREATES OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT,
ONE-TO-ONE FRIENDSHIPS,
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT,
INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT,
INCLUSIVE LIVING AND FAMILY
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT,
SUPPORT FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
INCLUSIVE LIVING AND FAMILY
INTELLECTUAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
SUPPORT FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES.
INTELLECTUAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
>> SO I'LL BE USING THE
DISABILITIES.
ABBREVIATION ID THROUGHOUT THE
>> SO I'LL BE USING THE
PRESENTATION AND AND THAT
ABBREVIATION ID THROUGHOUT THE
INCLUDES BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO
PRESENTATION AND AND THAT
PEOPLE WITH DOWNS SYNDROME
INCLUDES BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO
AUTISM, FRAGILE X WILLIAMS
PEOPLE WITH DOWNS SYNDROME
SYNDROME AND MANY OTHER
AUTISM, FRAGILE X WILLIAMS
INTELLECTUAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
SYNDROME AND MANY OTHER
DISABILITIES AND THEN THESE
INTELLECTUAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
PICTURES ON THE RIGHT ARE SOME
DISABILITIES AND THEN THESE
OF OUR PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS
PICTURES ON THE RIGHT ARE SOME
THROUGHOUT THE STATE
OF OUR PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS
OF MICHIGAN.
THROUGHOUT THE STATE
SO MY FAVORITES.
OF MICHIGAN.
ALL RIGHT.
SO MY FAVORITES.
SO AS I MENTIONED WE ARE AN
ALL RIGHT.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION SO
SO AS I MENTIONED WE ARE AN
THIS MAP HERE SHOWS OUR IMPACT
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION SO
GLOBALLY.
THIS MAP HERE SHOWS OUR IMPACT
SO WE HAVE A PRESENCE IN ALL 50
GLOBALLY.
STATES AND THEN OVER FORTY
SO WE HAVE A PRESENCE IN ALL 50
THREE COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE.
STATES AND THEN OVER FORTY
I THINK THIS NUMBER HAS EVEN
THREE COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE.
INCREASED SINCE I MADE THESE
I THINK THIS NUMBER HAS EVEN
SLIDES BECAUSE ONE OF OUR BIG
INCREASED SINCE I MADE THESE
ORGANIZATIONS PRIORITIES IS TO
SLIDES BECAUSE ONE OF OUR BIG
EXPAND OUR REACH
ORGANIZATIONS PRIORITIES IS TO
INTERNATIONALLY TO AND THEN IN
EXPAND OUR REACH
OUR LAST PROGRAM YEAR WE HAD
INTERNATIONALLY TO AND THEN IN
OVER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
OUR LAST PROGRAM YEAR WE HAD
ACTIVELY INVOLVED PARTICIPANTS
OVER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
ACTIVELY INVOLVED PARTICIPANTS
ALL RIGHT.
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
SO NEXT I HAVE A VIDEO SO I'M
ALL RIGHT.
GOING TO MAKE SURE I'M SHARING
SO NEXT I HAVE A VIDEO SO I'M
MY COMPUTER SOUND AS WELL AND
GOING TO MAKE SURE I'M SHARING
THIS IS NARRATED
BY ONE OF OUR
AMAZING PARTICIPANTS BECAUSE
WHO BETTER TO EXPLAIN WHAT WE
DO HERE BEST BUDDIES THAN
SOMEONE WHO IS INVOLVED IN IT
THEMSELVES TO SHARE MY SOUND
I'LL TRY TO PLAY BUT IF IT'S
NOT WORKING AT THE SOUND, JUST
LET ME KNOW I BELONG.
>> THAT'S ONE OF OUR MOSSBACK.
CAN YOU ALL HEAR THAT?
YES.
OK, PERFECT.
I'LL MAKE IT SCREENLAND.
>> I CAME IN MADE A DESIRE FOR
CONNECTION AND A TO EVERYONE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE INTELLECTUAL
AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES
LIKE ME OFTEN STRUGGLE TO MAKE
FRIENDS AND FIND OUR PLACE IN
THE WORLD.
IT CAN BE LONELY AND WE ARE NOT
ALWAYS SEEN FOR OUR ABILITIES
BEST THESE CHANGES LIVES BY
PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES THAT
MEET PEOPLE WHERE THEY ARE WITH
THE WELCOMING EMBRACE.
IT'S ALL ABOUT INCLUSION,
INCLUSION IS A LITTLE GIRL WITH
AUTISM CELEBRATING HER BIRTHDAY
SURROUNDED BY FRIENDS FOR THE
FIRST TIME WHEN A TEENAGE BOY
WITH D'ALLESANDRO LIGHTS UP
WITH JOY AS HIS BEST FRIEND
PULLS INTO THE DRIVEWAY IS A
CAPABLE AND HARDWORKING WOMAN
BEING SEEN WITH A VALUE SHE
BRINGS TO THE WORKPLACE A SMART
AND ASPIRING MAN GIVEN A
PLATFORM TO LIFT HIS VOICE FOR
THE WORLD TO HEAR AND A GROUP
OF PEOPLE WITH AND WITHOUT
DISABILITIES LAUGHING AND
LIVING LIFE TOGETHER AS THEY
NAVIGATE ADULTHOOD THAT IS
INCLUSION BEST KNOWN AS THE
WORLD'S LARGEST ORGANIZATION
DEDICATED TO ENDING THE SOCIAL
ISOLATION OF TWO HUNDRED
MILLION INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE
INTELLECTUAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
DISABILITIES.
ANTHONY KENNEDY SHRIVER AND A
SMALL GROUP OF FRIENDS THAT ARE
BEST BUDDIES AT GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY BASED ON THE IDEA
THAT EVERYONE DESERVES TO HAVE
A BUDDY WHAT THIS SMALL GROUP
OF FRIENDS HAS TURNED INTO A
GLOBAL VOLUNTEER MOVEMENT
IMPACTING THE LIVES OF OVER ONE
POINT TWO MILLION PEOPLE.
OUR PROGRAMS ARE DESIGNED TO
BUILD A MORE INCLUSIVE WORLD
CHILDHOOD ALL THE WAY TO
ADULTHOOD WITH FIVE MASSIVE
PILLARS WE FOCUS ON MEANINGFUL
ONE TO ONE FRIENDSHIPS
INTEGRATE EMPLOYMENT,
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT,
INCLUSIVE LIVING AND FAMILY
SUPPORT GIVING A LITTLE BIT
OF YOURSELF TO MAKE SOMEONE
ELSE'S LIFE BETTER IS PRETTY
POWERFUL.
HELP US BREAK DOWN BARRIERS
THAT MAKE CONTINUE THIS
IMPORTANT WORK AND JOIN US IN
CELEBRATING THE ABILITIES
OF ALL OF MY BEST BUDDIES
PARTICIPANTS.
MY NAME IS JOSHUA FELDER AND I
MY GLOBAL AMBASSADOR, A FORMER
BOARD MEMBER FOR BEST BUDDIES
IN NATIONAL.
YOU HAVE THE POWER TO MAKE AN
IMPACT CRATER AND CHAMPION OUR
MISSION OF INCLUSION TODAY I
HOPE YOU WILL ENJOY THE VIDEO.
IT'S DEFINITELY ONE OF MY
FAVORITE AND IF YOU'VE SEEN THE
MOVIE CHAMPIONS JOSH WAS
ACTUALLY A STAR IN THAT WHICH
IS A VERY GREAT MOVIE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO AS JOSH MENTIONED, WE HAVE
FIVE MISSION PILLARS AND BEST
BUDDIES ONE TO ONE FRIENDSHIPS
,INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT,
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT,
INCLUSIVE LIVING AND FAMILY
SUPPORT AND CURRENTLY IN
MICHIGAN WE HAVE THREE OUT
OF THOSE FIVE.
SO THE ONES ON THE LEFT
FRIENDSHIP, EMPLOYMENT AND
LEADERSHIP.
SO I OVERSEE OUR STATE'S
FRIENDSHIP PROGRAMS WHICH ARE
MEANT FOR ALL AGES STARTED AS
EARLY AS ELEMENTARY GOING
THROUGH ADULTHOOD.
SO WE OFTEN OPERATE WITHIN A
SCHOOL SETTING SO WE WORK WITH
ELEMENTARY MIDDLE AND HIGH
SCHOOLS AS WELL AS COLLEGES TO
FORM SORT OF AN EXTRACURRICULAR
CLUB IN WHICH STUDENTS FROM THE
SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOMS
AND THE REST OF THE SCHOOL CAN
FORM MEANINGFUL ONE-TO-ONE
FRIENDSHIPS.
INCLUSIVE EVENTS HAPPEN
THROUGHOUT THE SCHOOL YEAR AND
A GREAT TIME IS HAD BY ALL AND
WE LOVE FOR THESE FRIENDSHIPS
TO REALLY TRANSCEND THE SCHOOL
WALLS.
I'M STILL FRIENDS WITH MY BEST
BUDDY FROM HIGH SCHOOL AND
COLLEGE BECAUSE THOSE
FRIENDSHIPS HAVE REALLY CHANGED
MY LIFE AND WE'VE REALLY GROWN
IN OUR FRIENDSHIP PILLAR WHICH
I'LL DISCUSS LATER ON BUT
DEFINITELY AN EXCITING AND
REWARDING PROGRAM TO BE A PART
OF AND WE ALSO HAVE AN ADULT
VERSION OF THE FRIENDSHIP
PROGRAM WHICH I'M GOING TO
EXPLAIN MORE IN A COUPLE
OF SLIDES CALLED BEST BUDDIES
CITIZENS MEANT FOR THOSE PAST
SCHOOL AGE AND WHO ARE JUST
LOOKING FOR A FRIEND IN THE
COMMUNITY AND THEN ALSO HERE IN
MICHIGAN WE HAVE OUR INTEGRATED
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM SO THAT'S
CURRENTLY IN OAKLAND, WAYNE AND
MCCOMB COUNTY.
SO WE UNFORTUNATELY DO NOT HAVE
IT IN WASHINGTON COUNTY YET.
BUT OF COURSE IF YOU KNOW
OF PEOPLE IN THOSE COUNTIES WHO
MAY BE INTERESTED IN GETTING
INVOLVED DEFINITELY GET INTO
TOUCH WITH ME AND I CAN CONNECT
YOU WITH MY COLLEAGUE NATALIE.
SO SHE WORKS WITH A CASELOAD
OF ADULTS WITH IBD TO HELP THEM
THROUGHOUT THE LIFECYCLE
OF EMPLOYMENT.
SO FROM RESUME BUILDING TO
INTERVIEWING, APPLYING FOR JOBS
AND THEN ONCE SOMEONE GETS
HIRED TO BE WITH THEM TO HELP
THEM LEARN THE JOB, ALSO WORK
WITH THE EMPLOYER TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY'RE EDUCATED ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF ACCESSIBILITY AND
INCLUSION WITHIN THEIR
WORKPLACE.
AND THEN OUR FINAL MISSION
PILLAR HERE IN MICHIGAN IS
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND THIS
IS A STATEWIDE PROGRAM WHERE WE
WORK WITH INDIVIDUALS WITHIN
WITHOUT ID TO GROW AS LEADERS
SELF ADVOCATE AND LEARN
IMPORTANT SKILLS LIKE PUBLIC
SPEAKING, SPEECH WRITING AMONG
OTHER THINGS.
SO WE RECENTLY LAUNCHED A
PROGRAM CALLED THE AMBASSADOR
ACADEMY IN WHICH WE HAVE 11
MICHIGAN PARTICIPANTS
UNDERGOING A NINE MONTH LONG
TRAINING REALLY GROW AS
LEADERS.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED FOR ALL
OF THEM.
AND THEN AS I MENTIONED, WE DO
NOT CURRENTLY HAVE INCLUSIVE
LIVING AND FAMILY SUPPORT IN
MICHIGAN BUT WE ARE HOPING THAT
THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS TO BRING
THOSE RIGHT HERE TO MICHIGAN.
BUT INCLUSIVE LIVING
ESSENTIALLY WORKS WITH A
COLLEGE CAMPUS.
SO WHEN IT COMES TO MICHIGAN
YOU'LL LIKELY BE IN ANN ARBOR
WHERE WE WOULD WORK WITH AN
APARTMENT COMPLEX TO GET A
FLOOR OR TO AND THOSE UNITS
WOULD BE DESIGNATED FOR MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY WITH AND
WITHOUT DISABILITIES WHO ARE
PAYING RENT AND LIVING IN THIS
INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY.
EACH PERSON WOULD HAVE THEIR
OWN UNIT AND AND EVERY WEEK
LIKE MONTHLY OR EVERY WEEK
DINNER HAS HAPPENED FOR THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND MONTHLY
EVENTS HAPPEN AS WELL.
SO HELPING TO BRING THAT HERE
TO ANN ARBOR SOON AND THEN
FINALLY, FAMILY SUPPORT IS OUR
NEWEST MISSION PILLAR WHICH IS
CURRENTLY OPERATING SOME OTHER
STATES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
BUT ESSENTIALLY THIS IS A
MENTORSHIP PROGRAM FOR FAMILIES
WHO HAVE A CHILD WITH AN ID AND
THEY GET PAIRED WITH A NEW OR
EXPECTING FAMILY, A CHILD WITH
ID AND THEY SHARE RESOURCES AND
CONNECT THEM TO OPPORTUNITIES
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY JUST SHOW
THAT THEIR CHILD CAN HAVE SUCH
A BEAUTIFUL FULFILLING LIFE
THROUGH, YOU KNOW, BEING A PART
OF THAT STUDY AND OTHER
WONDERFUL ORGANIZATIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN HERE IS OUR IMPACT
LOCALLY HERE IN MICHIGAN.
SO WE CURRENTLY HAVE TWENTY ONE
SCHOOL BASED FRIENDSHIP
CHAPTERS SO THAT'S OUR
ELEMENTARY MIDDLE HIGH SCHOOL
AS WELL AS COLLEGE PROGRAMS.
THEN WE HAVE TWO ADULT
FRIENDSHIP PROGRAMS ONE HERE IN
WASHOE COUNTY AND THEN ONE IN
OAKLAND COUNTY AND LAST PROGRAM
YEAR WE HAD OVER 1000
INDIVIDUALS PARTICIPATING IN
OUR PROGRAMS AND OVER TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY ONE TO ONE
FRIENDSHIPS WERE FORMED AND
THEN MY COLLEAGUE NATALIE HAS
ABOUT TWENTY ONE PARTICIPANTS
ON HER JOBS CASELOAD.
WE'RE EITHER ACTIVELY EMPLOYED
OR LOOKING FOR EMPLOYMENT AND
THEN AS I MENTIONED EARLIER, WE
HAVE ELEVEN PARTICIPANTS
CURRENTLY GOING THROUGH OUR
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT OR
AMBASSADOR PROGRAM.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN LOOKING MORE
SPECIFICALLY HERE IN WASHINGTON
COUNTY.
SO WE HAVE SEVERAL PROGRAMS
GOING ON.
SO WE RECENTLY OPENED TWO NEW
HIGH SCHOOL CHAPTERS WITHIN THE
LAST YEAR AND THOSE ARE AT
YPSILANTI COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL
AT LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL.
WE'RE ALWAYS LOOKING TO ADD
MORE TO THAT SO YOU KNOW OF A
K-12 SCHOOL THAT WOULD LOVE
BEST BUDDIES OR MAYBE HAS A
SIMILAR PROGRAM BUT IS LOOKING
FOR MORE STRUCTURE DEFINITELY
CONNECT WITH THEM.
I'D LOVE TO CHAT WITH THEM AND
SUPPORT THEM IN BRINGING THE
BEST BUDDIES CHAPTER TO THEIR
SCHOOL AND THEN WE HAVE TWO
VERY STRONG COLLEGE CHAPTERS
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WHICH IS ACTUALLY OUR
LONGSTANDING FRIENDSHIP CHAPTER
HERE IN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
AND USUALLY ONE OF OUR BIGGEST
ONES I BELIEVE LAST YEAR THEY
HAD OVER 300 MEMBERS SO
INVOLVING BOTH THE COLLEGE
STUDENTS AND THEN COMMUNITY
MEMBERS THEY OFTEN PARTNER WITH
THE WHISKEY TO GET THEIR YOUNG
BUILT PROGRAMS TO COME TO
CAMPUS AND FORM THOSE
FRIENDSHIPS.
AND EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY
ALSO HAS A CHAPTER AND WORKS
WITH THE YOUNG ADULT PROGRAMS
AND IPSI TO GET THEIR BUDDIES
FROM AND THEN IN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF SIDES THEY'RE GOING
TO BE DOING A DEEPER DOVE INTO
OUR CITIZENS PROGRAM.
BUT ABOUT A YEAR AGO WE
LAUNCHED OUR ADULT FRIENDSHIP
PROGRAM HERE IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY SO AGAIN THIS IS
DESIGNED FOR ADULTS WHO ARE NO
LONGER AFFILIATED WITH THE
SCHOOL AND ARE LOOKING FOR A
FRIEND IN A COMMUNITY TO BE
INVOLVED.
AND SO EVERY MONTH WE HOST AN
EVENT WITHIN WASHTENAW COUNTY.
JUST THIS PAST WEEKEND WE WENT
TO THE DEXTEROUS A.M. WHICH IS
VERY FUN AND NEXT MONTH WE'RE
GOING TO BE DOING A FRIEND'S
GIVING SO ANYONE YOU KNOW IS
INTERESTED IN GETTING
CONNECTED.
I'D BE HAPPY TO CHAT WITH THEM
BECAUSE WE'RE ALWAYS LOOKING
FOR NEW MEMBERS.
AND THEN FINALLY I JUST WANT TO
INCLUDE SOME PICTURES ON HERE
SINCE WE ARE IN ANN ARBOR, SOME
OF THE COLLABORATIONS YOU'VE
DONE WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN'S FOOTBALL TEAM
THAT HAVE BEEN JUST SO
REWARDING AND MUTUALLY
ENRICHING FOR THE PARTICIPANTS
FROM BEST BUDDIES IN THE
FOOTBALL PLAYERS ALIKE.
SO THOSE ARE SOME OF MY
FAVORITE PICTURES FROM SOME
OF THE EVENTS WE'VE DONE WITH
OAK AND NOW WE'RE DOING A
DEEPER DOVE INTO OUR CITIZENS
PROGRAM SINCE THIS IS ONE
OF OUR NEWEST PROGRAMS THAT
WE'VE BROUGHT HERE TO THE ANN
ARBOR AREA.
SO AS I MENTIONED, THIS IS FOR
ADULTS.
SO ANYONE OVER THE AGE OF 18
WITH AND WITHOUT ID WHO ARE
NO
LONGER IN SCHOOL AND LOOKING
FOR AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE
FRIENDS AND BE A PART OF A
SOCIAL NETWORK COMMUNITY
FOCUSED ON INCLUSION AND
BELONGING.
SO EVERY MONTH WE HOST AN EVENT
IN THE AREA AND THEN WE PAIR
INDIVIDUALS WITH WITHOUT ID AND
ONE-TO-ONE FRIENDSHIPS BASED
OFF OF SIMILAR AGE INTERESTS
AND AVAILABILITY TO REALLY SET
THEM UP TO HAVE A GENUINE LONG
LASTING FRIENDSHIP.
AND AS THE PROGRAM HAS GROWN
WHICH HAS BEEN SO EXCITING AND
WE ALSO ARE FACING THE REALITY
THAT THERE'S NOW A WAIT LIST
OF BUDDIES WAITING TO BE
MATCHED.
SO WE ARE DEFINITELY IN A NEED
FOR MORE VOLUNTEERS AND WE'VE
FOUND IN OTHER STATES THAT HAVE
REALLY SUCCESSFUL CITIZENS
PROGRAMS THAT THEY ARE ABLE TO
GET A VOLUNTEER BASE THROUGH A
COMPANY OR A BUSINESS WHERE
THEY CAN GET A STEADY POOL
OF VOLUNTEER TO PARTICIPATE AND
BEST BUDDIES CITIZENS.
BUT WE HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO DO
THAT YET HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
SO DEFINITELY OPEN TO ANY IDEAS
OR CONNECTIONS ON THAT FRONT
BECAUSE AS OF NOW A LOT OF OUR
VOLUNTEERS HAVE BEEN WE'RE JUST
RANDOM COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
ARE INVOLVED IN A VARIETY
OF THINGS WHO ARE ALL SUCH
WONDERFUL MEMBERS BUT ALWAYS
LOOKING FOR MORE VOLUNTEERS TO
LET YOU KNOW YOU'RE AT THE TWO
MINUTE MARK.
OH, THANK YOU.
AND THEN I'M JUST INCLUDE A QR
CODE ON HERE IN CASE ANYONE IS
INTERESTED IN SIGNING UP THAT
WILL TAKE YOU TO OUR ONLINE
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION AND THEN
I WILL CONTACT ANYONE ABOUT
NEXT STEPS AND THEN I WILL SAVE
THIS VIDEO FOR YOU ALL TO WATCH
ON YOUR OWN.
BUT THIS IS A GREAT LITTLE
FRIENDSHIP SPOTLIGHT OUT
OF ANOTHER CITIZENS CHAPTER IN
MINNESOTA JUST TO GET A BETTER
SENSE OF WHAT WE HOPE TO
ACCOMPLISH WITH BEST BUDDIES
CITIZENS.
AND THEN FINALLY I JUST WANT TO
WRAP UP BY SPOTLIGHTING A
COUPLE OF OUR SPECIAL EVENTS
AND FUNDRAISERS IN CASE ANYONE
IS INTERESTED GETTING INVOLVED
OR SUPPORTING.
SO OUR MOST UPCOMING ONE IS OUR
CHAMPION OF THE YEAR GALA ON
NOVEMBER 14TH AT THE HENRY FORD
MUSEUM IN DEARBORN.
THIS IS ONE OF OUR MORE FANCY
FUNDRAISERS WHERE WE HAVE ABOUT
TEN COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO ARE
IN A FRIENDLY COMPETITION TO
RAISE THE MOST AMOUNT OF MONEY
FOR BEST BUDDIES.
SO WE'RE ALWAYS LOOKING FOR NEW
PEOPLE TO COME BUY A TICKET AND
ATTEND THE GALA OR IF YOU KNOW
OF A BUSINESS I'D BE WILLING TO
DONATE AN AUCTION ITEM.
WE CAN DEFINITELY CONNECT
OFFLINE AND THEN OUR FRIENDSHIP
IS GOING TO BE IN APRIL BACK AT
THE DETROIT ZOO AND THAT'S A
REALLY COMMUNITY FRIENDLY,
FAMILY FRIENDLY EVENT AS WELL.
IT'S FREE TO PARTICIPATE BUT
THAT'S DEFINITELY ONE OF MY
FAVORITE EVENTS AS WELL.
SO I'M HAPPY TO PROVIDE ANY
INFORMATION IF ANYONE'S
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
AGAIN INVOLVED.
THE OTHER SIDE JUST KIND
OF SUMMARIZES WHAT I'VE TALKED
ABOUT IN SOME OF OUR MORE
PRESSING NEEDS.
SO YEAH, FEEL FREE TO CONTACT
ME.
MY EMAIL AND CONTACT
INFORMATION IS ON BUT THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME AND HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THERE
DAMAN THANK YOU SO MUCH LYDIA
FOR THAT WONDERFUL PRESENTATION
AND FOR ALL THE BEST BUDDIES
DOES AROUND OUR COMMUNITY AND
AROUND OUR STATE.
I JUST HAD A QUICK QUESTION ARE
THERE ANY BUDDIES THAT ARE LIKE
PROFESSIONALS WITH DISABILITIES
THAT ALSO GET PAIRED UP WITH,
YOU KNOW, A PARTICIPANT?
I'M JUST WONDERING YEAH, THAT'S
A GREAT QUESTION.
ABSOLUTELY.
EVERYBODY IS WELCOME AND BEST
BUDDIES SO I THINK I WOULD LIKE
TALK TO THE INDIVIDUAL AND SEE
WHO THEY WANT TO BE PAIRED WITH
BECAUSE WE WANT TO DO WHAT IS
BEST FOR THEM.
BUT ABSOLUTELY ANYONE WOULD BE
WELCOME.
YOU'RE WONDERFUL.
NO, I THINK THAT'S THAT'S
REALLY GREAT AND I'VE SEEN JUST
THROUGHOUT MY TIME IN MICHIGAN
THE IMPACT THE BEST BUDDIES
HAVE HAD IN THE DISABILITY
COMMUNITY BUILDING THAT
CONFIDENCE AND I WAS REALLY
IMPACTED TO HEAR ABOUT THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FAMILY
PROGRAM AS WELL AS THE
INDEPENDENT LIVING PROGRAM.
SO AS THOSE BUILD AND AS YOU
CONTINUE TO IMPLEMENT THOSE
HERE IN MICHIGAN, PLEASE REACH
OUT.
LET US KNOW IF THERE'S ANYTHING
WE CAN DO TO SUPPORT THOSE
EFFORTS.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR LYDIA
LOCAL VOLUNTEERS UNCOVERED AND
BEGAN THE ARDUOUS PROCESS
OF DOCUMENTING OVER NINE
THOUSAND RACIALLY RESTRICTIVE
COVENANTS THROUGHOUT WASHTENAW
COUNTY.
THESE COVENANTS WERE USED
PRIMARILY IN THE FIRST HALF
OF THE 20TH CENTURY TO PROHIBIT
TO PROHIBIT PRIMARILY BLACK BUT
ALSO OTHER INDIVIDUALS FROM
LIVING OR PURCHASING CERTAIN
PROPERTIES BASED ON THEIR RACE,
ETHNICITY OR RELIGION.
THE HARMS OF THESE COVENANTS
PERSIST TODAY.
NOW THE FULL MAP IS COMPLETE
AND WE WILL SHARE WHAT WE'VE
LEARNED AND INVITE YOU TO
IMAGINE WHAT COMES NEXT.
JOIN US AS WE UNCOVER HIDDEN
HISTORIES FROM WASHTENAW COUNTY
AND WE HAVE EXPLORING THE MIND
THE STRESS RESPONSE IN HUMANS
AND ANIMALS FRIEND OR FOE THIS
IS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10TH FROM
SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY PM AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY STRESS IS
OFTEN PORTRAYED AS THE ENEMY
OF MODERN LIFE LINKED TO HEART
DISEASE, DEPRESSION AND
PREMATURE AGING.
BUT THIS STORY OVERLOOKS A
CRUCIAL FACT THE STRESS
RESPONSE ORIGINALLY EVOLVED
BECAUSE IT WAS ADAPTIVE IN THIS
TALK PROFESSOR DECENTERED SEE
BINER TRACES THE BIOLOGY
OF ACUTE STRESS SHOWING HOW THE
BODY MOBILIZES ENERGY TO FACE
IMMEDIATE THREATS AND WHY THIS
IS ESSENTIAL FOR SURVIVAL.
SHE THEN TURNS TO CHRONIC
STRESS HIGHLIGHTING THE
WELL-KNOWN COSTS OF AN
OVERACTIVE STRESS SYSTEM AND
HUMAN HEALTH.
FINALLY, SHE ARGUES THAT WE
HAVE UNDERESTIMATED THE
BENEFITS OF STRESS DRAWING ON
HER RESEARCH WITH WILD CAPUCHIN
MONKEYS IN COSTA RICA DURING
ONE OF THE MOST SEVERE EL NINO
DROUGHTS ON RECORD, INDIVIDUALS
WITH A STRONGER STRESS RESPONSE
WERE MORE LIKELY TO SURVIVE BY
REFRAMING STRESS AS BOTH FRIEND
AND FOE PROFESSOR BRENER SHOWS
HOW EVOLUTIONARY AND ECOLOGICAL
PERSPECTIVES CAN RESHAPE OUR
UNDERSTANDING OF HUMAN AND
ANIMAL HEALTH.
>> AND THEN AS USUAL I WOULD
ENCOURAGE ANYBODY WHO'S
INTERESTED IN THE WASHTENAW
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
DISABLED RECEIVING LARGE PRINT
MATERIALS, AUDIO BOOK MATERIALS
,SIGNING UP FOR THE BRAILLE
AND AUDIO READING SERVICE THAT
YOU CAN USE ON YOUR OWN DEVICE
AND DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS TO
CONTACT US AT THE LIBRARY.
AND OUR PHONE NUMBER IS SEVEN
THREE FOUR THREE TWO SEVEN FOUR
TWO TWO FOUR OR YOU CAN EMAIL
US AT W B. P D A DIALOG AND
THEN I'LL HIGHLIGHT A COUPLE
OF BOOKS THAT I CAME ACROSS
THAT ARE NEWLY ADDED TO BARD
RECENTLY.
WE ARE PALACES FOR THE PEOPLE
HOW SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE
CAN HELP FIGHT INEQUALITY
PLURALIZE NATION AND THE
DECLINE OF CIVIC LIFE BY ERIC
KLINENBERG.
WE ARE LIVING IN A TIME OF DEEP
DIVISIONS.
AMERICANS ARE SORTING
THEMSELVES ALONG RACIAL,
RELIGIOUS AND CULTURAL LINES
LEADING TO A LEVEL
OF POLARIZATION THAT THE
COUNTRY HASN'T SEEN SINCE THE
CIVIL WAR.
PUNDITS AND POLITICIANS ARE
CALLING FOR US TO COME TOGETHER
TOGETHER TO FIND COMMON PURPOSE
BUT HOW EXACTLY CAN THIS BE
DONE IN PALACES FOR THE PEOPLE
?
ERIC KLINENBERG SUGGESTS A WAY
FORWARD.
HE BELIEVES THAT THE FUTURE
OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIETIES RESTS
NOT SIMPLY ON SHARED VALUES BUT
ON SHARED SPACES.
THE LIBRARIES, CHILD CARE
CENTERS, BOOKSTORES, CHURCHES,
SYNAGOGUES AND PARKS WHERE
CRUCIAL SOMETIMES LIFESAVING
CONNECTIONS ARE FORMED.
>> THESE ARE PLACES WHERE
PEOPLE GATHER AND LINGER MAKING
FRIENDS ACROSS GROUP LINES AND
STRENGTHENING THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY.
KLINENBERG CALLS THIS THE
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHEN IT IS STRONG,
NEIGHBORHOODS FLOURISH WHEN IT
IS NEGLECTED AS IT HAD BEEN IN
RECENT YEARS.
FAMILIES AND INDIVIDUAL MUST
FEND FOR THEMSELVES AND FINALLY
WE HAVE WE ALL WANT TO CHANGE
THE WORLD.
MY JOURNEY THROUGH SOCIAL
JUSTICE MOVEMENTS FROM 1960S
TODAY TO TODAY BY KAREEM
JABBAR.
FOR MANY IT CAN FEEL LIKE
CHANGE TAKES TOO LONG AND IT
MIGHT SEEM
THAT WE HAVE NOT
MOVED VERY FAR.
BUT POLITICAL ACTIVIST KAREEM
JABBAR BELIEVES THAT PUBLIC
PROTEST IS A VITAL PART
OF EFFECTING CHANGE EVEN IF
THAT CHANGE DOESN'T COME RIGHT
NOW AND WE ALL WANT TO CHANGE
THE WORLD.
HE EXAMINES THE ACTIVISM
OF PEOPLE OF ALL AGES,
ETHNICITIES AND SOCIOECONOMIC
BACKGROUNDS THAT HELP CHANGE
AMERICA, DOCUMENTING EVENTS
FROM THE FREE SPEECH MOVEMENT
THROUGH THE MOVEMENT FOR CIVIL
RIGHTS, THE FIGHT FOR WOMEN'S
AND LGBTQ RIGHTS AND OF COURSE
THE PROTESTS AGAINST THE
VIETNAM WAR AT A TIME IN OUR
HISTORY WHEN WE ARE WITNESSING
PROTESTS ACROSS CAMPUSES WITHIN
THE LABOR LABOR MOVEMENT AND
FOLLOWING THE KILLING OF GEORGE
FLOYD JABBAR REMINDS US THAT
PROTESTS ARE A LIFEBLOOD OF OUR
HISTORY.
PROTEST MOVEMENTS EVEN PEACEFUL
ONES ARE NEVER POPULAR FIRST.
BUT THERE IS A REASON PROTEST
GATHERINGS HAVE BEEN SO
FREQUENT THROUGHOUT HISTORY
THEY ARE EFFECTIVE AND THAT IS
EVERYTHING THAT I HAVE FOR YOU
ALL TODAY.
>> DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS OR ANYTHING
FOR ME?
>> YES, LARRY, I HAVE A
COMMENT.
THE COMMENT IS I DID A NEW
MACHINE.
>> OH, THAT'S GREAT.
HE'S TALKING ABOUT WE HAVE A
NEW DIGITAL TALKING BOOK
MACHINE WE'RE CALLING THE DATA
AND THIS IS A NEW VERSION
OF OUR DIGITAL TALKING BOOK
PLAYER THAT WILL CONNECT TO
WIRELESS INTERNET AND YOU CAN
ACTUALLY USE THE BARD WEBSITE
TO SEND BOOKS DIRECTLY TO THE
PLAYER.
AND I'VE ACTUALLY HEARD THAT
SOME PEOPLE ARE FINDING IT A
LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT TO USE IT
A LITTLE BIT MORE COMPLICATED
THAN THAT OTHER PLAYERS.
SO LARRY, I'M REALLY HAPPY TO
RECEIVE YOUR FEEDBACK AND HEAR
THAT YOU LIKE IT NEEDS TO BE
ACTIVATED.
>> BUT OTHER THAN THAT I THINK
IT'S GOOD.
>> YEAH, THERE'S A COUPLE STEPS
TO GET IT WORKING.
WE'VE ACTUALLY BEEN SUGGESTING
THAT FOLKS USE A USB KEYBOARD
IF THAT'S HELPFUL THAT MAY BE
FOR SOME PEOPLE AND NOT FOR
OTHERS.
BUT SOME PEOPLE HAVE FOUND THAT
THAT IS A LITTLE EASIER TO HOOK
UP TO THOSE THINGS INITIALLY A
LOT EASIER.
>> YEAH, WELL YOU MENTIONED THE
SOLOMON.
>> YEAH.
THANKS AS ALWAYS KATIE.
SINCE YOU ASKED FOR COMMENT I
WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT TO TO ALL
EVENTS THAT WERE NOTHING SHORT
OF SPECTACULAR.
ONE WAS THE JULY 20 SCREENING
OF RESILIENCE REVEALED AT THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
DOWNTOWN LOCATION A GREAT
EVENT.
>> YES, IT WAS ABSOLUTELY
STUNNING EVENT ALMOST AS
STUNNING BUT REALLY EYE OPENING
WAS SUNDAY'S DEAD MEDIA DAY
WHEN AN INCREDIBLY ORIGINAL
IDEA FOR AN EVENT TERRIFIC
VENDORS YOU KNOW A LOT OF VINYL
PHONOGRAPH CYLINDERS, OLD
FORMATS JUST REALLY ORIGINAL
EYE OPENING.
YOU'RE OPENING EVENT I HOPE
IT'S HELD AGAIN SO THAT MORE
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY I'VE
NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE THAT
IN MY LIFETIME AND IT WAS JUST
STUNNINGLY ORIGINAL AND
INFORMATIVE.
I CAN'T SAY ENOUGH GOOD THINGS
ABOUT DEAD MEDIA DAY AS WELL.
>> THANKS SO MUCH FOR SHARING
THAT.
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME THAT
WE'VE HELD THAT EVENT AND I
WILL DEFINITELY PASS THAT ALONG
TO THE TEAM THAT ORGANIZED IT.
>> SO I'M SO GLAD THAT YOU
ENJOYED IT.
THAT'S GREAT HERE DAMON.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
I WAS REALLY BUMMED THAT I WAS
NOT AROUND AND THAT I HAD TO
MISS THAT EVENT SO I WAS GOING
TO ASK ACTUALLY THANK YOU
MATTHEW IF THERE WAS GOING TO
BE ANOTHER DEAD MEDIA DAY.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT CAN HAPPEN
AND OTHERS CAN ATTEND.
I THINK IT IS ALWAYS IMPORTANT
TO KNOW THE MEDIA TECHNIQUES
THAT HAVE COME BEFORE BECAUSE
HISTORY IS IMPORTANT.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT CAN BE
SOMETHING THAT HAPPENS AGAIN.
MATTHEW, SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU
WERE ABLE TO ATTEND THAT AND
ENJOY IT.
I'M JUST WRITING A NOTE FOR
MYSELF RIGHT NOW TO MAKE SURE
THAT I PASS ON YOUR FEEDBACK TO
THE TEAM SO THAT THEY KNOW THAT
IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
DEFINITELY WANT TO REPEAT.
>> COMMISSIONER PACARD.
OH, I JUST WANTED TO REAFFIRM
THOSE MEDIA SO I WISH I WAS
THERE AND I'D LOVE TO SEE
ANOTHER ONE AND THANKS FOR ALL
THE BOOKS THAT TO ORDER.
I LOVE GIVING YOUR SUGGESTIONS
FOR THE BOOK BY SOMEONE NAME IF
I JUST HAD BEEN HEARING ABOUT
THAT IF THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO
CHECK FOR BUT THANKS FOR ALL
YOU DO.
>> SORRY ROB I THINK YOU ALL A
LITTLE BIT AT LEAST ON MY AND
WHAT WAS THE BOOK OH OH I HEARD
TODAY ABOUT A BOOK ABOUT A
PERSON WHO'S BLIND WHO MOVED
FORWARD AND WHAT THEY DID IT
KIND OF AN INSPIRATIONAL BOOK
CALLED BY BUT YOU CAN ALWAYS
GET IN TOUCH WITH ME BUT
APPRECIATE YOU WHAT YOU'RE
ORDERING YOUR BY MOLLY
BIRTHDAY.
>> OH YES.
I AM DEFINITELY LOOKING FORWARD
TO READING SCENE BY MOLLY
BURKE.
YEAH.
OH GOOD LUCK.
AND THAT WE'LL GET I KNOW IT'S
STILL PRETTY NEW BUT I WILL
KEEP THAT ON MY RADAR AND LET
YOU KNOW WHEN I SEE IT COME
ACROSS THE NEW BOOK I'LL I'LL
TRY AND HIGHLIGHT THAT HERE TOO
WHEN I WHEN I SEE IT COME
THROUGH THE FRIENDS I GO OK ALL
RIGHT THANK YOU.
ANY ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
QUESTIONS FOR KATIE AT THIS
TIME.
ALL RIGHTY.
WELL AS ALWAYS KATIE, THANK YOU
SO MUCH TO YOU AND THE GREAT
WORK THAT THEY DO WE DO REALLY
APPRECIATE IT.
WHAT A GREAT RESOURCE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND IF ANYBODY HAS
NEVER BEEN TO THE WASHINGTON
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND PRINT
DISABLED CHECK IT OUT.
>> IT'S AWESOME.
THANK YOU, KATIE.
YOU'RE WELCOME AND THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR HAVING ME.
>> SEE YOU LATER ON.
NEXT WE HAVE THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON REPORT WITH ANDREA
HENRY.
>> ANDREA, GOOD AFTERNOON.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
LET ME SEE IF I CAN DO THIS
FASTER THAN THE SUN IS MOVING
CURRENTLY.
SO I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT WEIRD
ANGLE.
JUST WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT A FEW
EVENTS.
SOME OF THEM I THINK I TOUCHED
ON A LITTLE BIT IN SEPTEMBER
AND WANTED TO JUST KEEP THEM ON
YOUR RADAR AS THEY CONTINUE TO
GET CLOSER.
AND THE FIRST EVENT IS OUR
HALLOWEEN TREAT AND DANCE
PARTY.
IT IS NEXT FRIDAY, OCTOBER THE
TWENTY FOURTH IN OUR IN
RELOCATION THE TRUNK OR TREAT
HAPPENS IN OUR PARKING LOT FROM
FIVE THIRTY TO SIX THIRTY.
THE DANCE HAPPENS FROM SIX TO
EIGHT INSIDE OF THE BUILDING.
CAN WE USE COSTUME DANCING FOOD
AND FUN FOR AGES 14 PLUS LOTS
OF VOLUNTEERS WILL BE DECKED
OUT.
TRUNK'S WILL BE FILLED WITH
TREATS ON THE DANCE FLOOR WILL
BE READY FOR YOUR BEST MOVES.
BRING YOUR FRIENDS DRESS UP IF
YOU LIKE AND CELEBRATE
HALLOWEEN TOGETHER DOES REQUIRE
SOME REGISTRATION AND YOU CAN
DO THAT BY GIVING OUR OFFICE A
CALL AT SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE
SEVEN ONE ZERO TWO SEVEN SEVEN
OR SENDING AN EMAIL TO INFO AT
D AND W MELLBERG AND WE CAN GET
YOU CONNECTED TO GET REGISTERED
FOR THAT EVENT ON THE HEELS
OF THAT EVENT WE ARE DOING A
COMMUNITY HARVEST GATHERING ON
SATURDAY NOVEMBER THE FIFTEENTH
EVENT IN ANN ARBOR FROM 11:00
A.M. TO ONE THAT WILL US THAT
DAY WILL ALSO INCLUDE A HOLIDAY
MARKET FROM ONE TO FOUR P.M.
WHERE DISABLED ARTISTS WILL BE
SET UP TO GET YOU A HEAD START
ON SOME OF YOUR HOLIDAY
SHOPPING, SOME OF THE ITEMS AND
VENDORS VENDORS THAT WE EXPECT
TO SEE THINGS LIKE POTTERY,
CERAMICS, TEXTILES AND
WEARABLES PAPER QUILLIN SMALL
SCULPTURES, JEWELRY, PAINTINGS,
PHOTOGRAPHS, AND MORE.
SO FEEL FREE TO JOIN US FOR ANY
OR ALL OF THAT OF THAT
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER THE 15TH AS
WELL AS THE BIG REVEAL OF OUR
A.D.A CELEBRATION COMMUNITY ART
PROJECT.
IF THAT DAY DOESN'T WORK FOR
YOU, THE HOLIDAY MARKET WILL BE
BACK IN DECEMBER ON SATURDAY
DECEMBER 6TH FROM ONE TO FOUR
P.M. FEATURING VERY SIMILAR
WARES TO THE NOVEMBER MARKET AS
WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY TO GET
YOUR PURCHASES GIFT WRAPPED FOR
FREE.
SO IF THAT IS NOT YOUR THING
AND YOU'D LIKE SOMEONE ELSE TO
DO IT FOR YOU FREE OF CHARGE,
PLEASE JOIN US BETWEEN ONE AND
FOUR P.M. ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER
THE 6TH THIS AND THESE AND MANY
MORE ACTIVITIES CAN ALWAYS BE
FOUND ON OUR WEBSITE OR
POLLINGER OFFICE AGAIN AT SEVEN
THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO
TO SEVEN SEVEN OR EMAILING INFO
AT N.W. EMELLE DOT OR THAT'S
ALL I HAVE FOR THE COMMISSION
TODAY UNLESS ANYBODY HAS ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENT.
THIS IS JARED DIAMOND JUST
WANTED TO THANK DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON FOR ALL THAT THEY DO
FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND ALL THE
GREAT COMMUNITY EVENTS THAT
THEY OFFER THAT HARVEST
GATHERING SOUNDS AMAZING YOU
GUYS NOVEMBER 15TH SO HOPEFULLY
PEOPLE CAN MAKE IT OUT THERE
FOR THAT AND JUST THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR ALL THAT YOU GUYS DO.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR ANDREA
?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANKS.
UM, NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS COMMITTEE REPORT
WITH VICE CHAIR LARRY KEILLER
THAT WELL I HAD SEVERAL LINES
ON MY THING RUN TOGETHER.
I ASKED KATHLEEN COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ OR COMMISSIONER
ACHENBACH TO FILL IN BUT WE DID
DISCUSS AND WE DID DISCUSS THE
BYLAWS.
I'M TAKING A LOOK AT THE BYLAWS
BEFORE THE UPCOMING ELECTION
AND TO SEE IF WE NEED TO TABLE
THE ELECTION.
WELL, WE'LL TALK ABOUT THAT IN
PARTICULAR.
I WAS JUST LOOKING AT THEM AND
YOU WANT TO LOOK AT SECTION SIX
ARTICLES ONE AND ONE TWO AND
THREE FOR THAT.
WE ALSO DISCUSSED AGAIN AND
COMMISSIONER MOSAIC'S SAID
PICTURES OF THE THIRD STREET
STARE.
THIS THIRD STREET STARE IS
ACROSS FROM THE START ACROSS
FROM THE LUTHERAN CHURCH OVER
THERE THAT WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
BEFORE AND HAS BEEN PUT ON THE
LIST FOR REDOING AND THE
QUESTION IS WHEN SIMAY IN THE
NEXT MONTH OR TWO ASKED THEM
EXACTLY WHEN IS THAT HAPPENING
BECAUSE WE'RE ON THE LIST BUT
WE DON'T KNOW AND COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ TOOK A FEW PICTURES
AND SENT THEM IN AND WE
DISCUSSED THE LIBRARY, THE
STRIPS AT THE LIBRARY, THE THE
WAY TO PUT SOME KIND OF YELLOW
STRIP OR TACK AND TACTILE
THINGS SO THAT YOU KNEW WHERE
THOSE STAIRS WERE IN THE FRONT
A LITTLE BETTER, ESPECIALLY FOR
THOSE WITH WITH LOWER NO VISION
.
>> AND I GOT TO GET IN CONTACT
WITH THE LIBRARY PRETTY SOON
ABOUT BUT WE GOT SWAMPED WITH A
LOT OF PERSONAL THINGS GOING ON
AND ALSO COMMISSIONER ACONITE
THAT WE HAD COMMISSIONER
GOODBAR AND COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ COMMISSIONER XINBO
BROUGHT UP THE IDEA THAT WE
NEED TO GET THE SOCIAL MEDIA
COMMITTEE MOVING A LITTLE BIT
AND THAT'S IT UNLESS
COMMISSIONER MOSAICA
COMMISSIONER AND HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADD.
>> I HAVE NOTHING TO ADD, LARRY
.
>> THANK YOU, LARRY.
AND THANK YOU TO THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS COMMITTEE AND YOU
BRING UP SOME VERY IMPORTANT
POINTS REALLY QUICKLY,
ESPECIALLY ABOUT THE SOCIAL
MEDIA COMMITTEE HOPEFULLY.
YES, WE CAN GET THAT GOING AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE AND AND KEEP
THAT GOING.
SO I WILL BE IN TOUCH WITH
THOSE COMMISSIONERS THAT HAVE
BEEN INTERESTED TO GET THAT
MOVING SO THAT WE CAN FORM A
PLAN OF ACTION AND SOME TASKS
THERE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, LARRY.
NEXT WE HAVE THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGING COMMITTEE REPORT WITH
COMMISSIONER RACHEL HAWKINS.
RACHEL, GOOD AFTERNOON.
GOOD AFTERNOON, ZACH.
>> SO I HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH
MELISSA MELISSA BONDIE SO I
KNOW KATHLEEN AND MELISSA HAD
BEEN TALKING ABOUT POSSIBLE
OPENING RELATED TO A LIKE A
KIND OF LIKE SHORT TERM GUEST
HOSTING.
MELISSA DID NOT HAVE ANY
UPDATES ON THEIR UPCOMING
TAPINGS BUT I'LL FORWARD THAT
TO KENNEDY ONCE I RECEIVE THAT
SO MORE TO COME THERE BUT DON'T
HAVE ANY ANY NEW UPDATES AT
THIS TIME.
>> SO SORRY SORRY ABOUT THAT.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS, PLEASE.
YEAH PLEASE KEEP MYSELF
INFORMED ON THE HOSTING
OPPORTUNITY.
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, I HOPE
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT YOU CAN
START TO WORK YOU INTO IN TERMS
OF ONCE THEY FORM THEIR
PRODUCTION CALENDAR FOR THE
YEAR AND AND SORT OF HOW THAT
PROCESS GOES.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
SEAMLESS BUT THEN ALSO
COMMISSIONER MOISSAC THAT
YOU'RE GIVEN GOOD SUPPORT THERE
BUT CDN DOES DO A GREAT JOB AND
IT'S A WONDERFUL FACILITY.
HOPEFULLY YOU'LL BE COMFORTABLE
THERE AND ANY INSIGHT YOU WOULD
LIKE AND OR ADVICE ON THAT SORT
OF THING, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
REACH OUT AS WELL
.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, RACHEL.
WELL, NEXT WE ARE RECRUITING
ACTIVITY WITH VICE CHAIR LARRY
CHELATE LARRY.
>> WELL, NOTHING HAS HAPPENED
SINCE YOU'VE BEEN OUT.
WE STILL HAVE AN APPLICATION
THAT NEEDS TO BE REVIEWED AND
AND MAYBE GET A TIME FOR A
INTERVIEW.
OTHER THAN THAT, I'VE HEARD
NOTHING ABOUT ANY OTHER
APPLICANTS OR OR ANYTHING.
I STILL THINK WE HAVE TWO SPOTS
OPEN AND THAT'S MY REPORT.
THANK YOU.
VICE CHAIR KEELER KENNEDY CAN
CONFIRM IF POSSIBLE DO WE STILL
HAVE TWO SEATS OPEN AT THIS
TIME?
>> THE COMMISSION HAS TO TAKE
POSITIONS.
THANK YOU.
OK, LARRY, I WILL BE IN TOUCH
WITH YOU ABOUT THAT OUTSTANDING
APPLICATION AND IF THERE IS
ANYBODY THAT WOULD LIKE TO BE
INVOLVED WITH THAT INTERVIEW
PROCESS PRETTY PLEASE LET
MYSELF IN KENNEDY THANK YOU,
LARRY.
>> DON'T GO ANYWHERE VICE CHAIR
KEELER BECAUSE WE HAVE YOU DOWN
FOR THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE I HAD NOT A
LOT BUT THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
HERE SO THAT THEY WERE IN
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONCERNS
ABOUT THE MILLER DESIGN AND HOW
THEY'RE DESIGNING MILLER AVENUE
OVER THERE BEFORE AROUND 75TH
STREET AND UP AND DOWN WEST AND
EAST AND WEST FROM THERE A
LITTLE WAYS THAT THEY'RE STILL
HAVING THEY'RE THINKING ABOUT
PUTTING IN SOME PRETTY GOOD
DIFFERENT DESIGNS AND THEY'RE
SLOWING.
THEY WANT TO SLOW IT DOWN TO TO
YOU KNOW, WITH THEIR TRAFFIC
CALMING AND THERE WAS WE'VE
DIVERTED TO REMOVE PARKING ON
BROCKMAN'S CERASO ON ONE OF THE
SIDEWALK FOR US SIDEWALK THE
PARTICULARLY THE PARKING SO I
CAN PUT IN A SIDEWALK OVER
THERE AND THAT MOTION CARRIED
AND THEN THERE WAS FOR UPDATES
THERE WAS I DON'T KNOW WHY NINE
LINES HAVE RUN TOGETHER.
>> I'VE GOT TO MAKE SURE THE
PAPER IN STRAIGHT THERE WAS
MOTIONED TO.
>> I HAVE NO CLUE WHAT THAT
SAYS BUT ANYWAY SOMETHING
PASSED BUT IT MUST HAVE BEEN
MAJOR THROUGH AND THEN THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT PUTTING INSTEAD
OF THE OLD LIGHTS ARE PUTTING
LED LIGHTS IN AND THEY ALSO
WANT TO PUT FOR THE STREET
LIGHTS UP BUT THEY ALSO WANT TO
PUT IN SOME SHIELDING ON THE
SIDE SO THAT THEY DON'T SHINE
IN PEOPLE'S WINDOWS.
THEY WANT THEM HALFWAY RIGHT.
BUT THEY DON'T WANT TO WANT
THEM TO SHINE IN WINDOWS IN
PLACES WHERE THEY SHOULD BE
SHINING A LOT TO JUST DOWN THE
STREET PRETTY MUCH AND THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT PUTTING IN MORE
STREET LIGHTS.
>> THEY WANT TO PUT IN MORE
OF THEM AND YEAH, THAT'S A
HOUSE FEELING WHEN TO GO ON.
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT MORE LANE
REDUCTIONS ON A LOT
OF DIFFERENT STREETS AND THAT'S
IT.
THE NEXT MEETING WILL BE AFTER
SOME CONSIDERATION.
THERE WAS A LITTLE DISPUTE ON
WHETHER IT WAS GOING TO
ACTUALLY BE BUT IT'S TONIGHT AT
7:00 AND THIS IS ON QUIN AND
THAT IS IT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
I DEFINITELY APPRECIATE ALL
THOSE UPDATES THERE AND REALLY
APPRECIATE THE UPDATES ON
STREETLIGHT AS WELL.
OH, IT'S PARDON ME.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE HAVE A
COMMISSIONER THAT HAS A COMMENT
.
>> SO COMMISSIONER PACARD
COMMISSIONER PACKARD, DID YOU
HAVE A COMMENT THESE DAYS IN
LIMBO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL GO AHEAD AND MOVE FORWARD
.
COMMISSIONER PACKARD, IF YOU
HAVE A COMMENT FOR LARRY BASED
ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION, JUST LET US KNOW
ONCE WE GET TO NEW BUSINESS AND
OR ANNOUNCEMENTS.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE EUROPEAN
COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS
MEETING UPDATE WITH
COMMISSIONER MATTHEW THE FLOOR
IS YOURS.
>> SO THE COMMISSION MET
YESTERDAY AND JUST
ANOTHER
REMINDER THE THE COMMISSION IS
IS OPEN TO ANY VISITOR AND THE
MEETINGS ARE ON ZOM YESTERDAY'S
MEETING WAS CONCERNED WITH JUST
SORT OF GETTING TO KNOW ONE
ANOTHER SO IT WAS COMMENTED
THAT DESPITE FORMING THIS
COMMUNITY IT WAS SOMETIMES
DIFFICULT TO GET TO KNOW
INDIVIDUALS ON THE COMMITTEE
AND SO BREAKOUT ROOMS WERE
FORMED AND BASICALLY THE BULK
OF THE MEETING WAS JUST IN
BREAKOUT ROOMS MEETING OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY AS AN
UNUSUAL FORMAT.
BUT IT WAS BENEFICIAL BECAUSE
YOU COME AWAY FOUR OR FIVE OR
SIX NEW CONTACTS SO THAT THAT
WAS THE AGENDA FOR YESTERDAY'S
MEETING.
COMMISSIONER MOSIG, THANK YOU
FOR THAT MATTHEW.
I HAVE A QUICK QUESTION SO I
KNOW WITH THE CFTC SOUNDS LIKE
TWENTY FIFTEEN WE USED TO MEET
IN PERSON PRE PANDEMIC I FOUND
IN-PERSON MEETINGS TO BE
EXTREMELY HELPFUL BECAUSE YOU
COULD NETWORK SIDEWAYS.
>> THEY WOULD PROVIDE A LITTLE
FOOD BUT YOU COULD YOU COULD
SEE PEOPLE IN PERSON AND REALLY
GET TO KNOW EACH OTHER A LITTLE
BIT BETTER.
>> HAVE THEY CONSIDERED GOING
BACK OR IS THAT OFF THE TABLE?
DO YOU HAPPEN TO KNOW?
>> IT'S AN EXCELLENT QUESTION.
I REALLY HAVE NO IDEA.
I CAN SEE ON ONE HAND THE
ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES
OF ONLINE MEETINGS.
BUT I THINK WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
IS ALSO VERY TRUE.
SO I WOULD SUGGEST REACHING OUT
TO THE CHAIR PAM OR THE
CO CHAIR WHO'S APPEARS TO BE
VERY ACTIVE FROM FLINT.
I WOULD JUST ASK HIM THAT
QUESTION DIRECTLY OR PERHAPS
YEAH.
BETWEEN NOW AND THE NEXT
MEETING I'D URGE YOU TO DO
THAT.
>> THANKS.
I'LL DO THAT.
I'LL REACH OUT TO PAM.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MATTHEW.
THANK YOU.
TO THE CFTC OR THE UMESH
COUNCIL OR DISABILITY CONCERNS
FOR ALL THEY DO FOR OUR
COMMUNITY AND THE UNIVERSITY
COMMUNITY AS WELL.
AND I'M VERY EXCITED THAT ALL
OF YOU ARE ABLE TO GET
ACQUAINTED, KNOW ONE ANOTHER
AND THEN IF THERE'S ANYTHING
THAT OUR COMMISSION CAN DO TO
SUPPORT THE CFTC, PLEASE LET US
KNOW.
>> THANK YOU.
ON NEXT WE HAVE THE CHAIR
REPORT THE BIGGEST THING THAT I
WANT TO REPORT ON TODAY IS I'M
EXCITED TO ANNOUNCE THAT THE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE JAMES BAKER
AWARD WINNER HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED
AND AND THE CEREMONY IS PLANNED
FOR OCTOBER 30TH TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE FROM ONE TO THREE P.M. AND
THAT'S GOING TO BE AT WINDSOR
HALL ON THE TENTH FLOOR NOW
IT'S I'M VERY EXCITED FOR THIS
AWARD AND I HOPE THAT OUR
COMMISSION CAN COME OUT TO
THIS.
>> I WILL BE SENDING OUT A
EMAIL INVITATION WITH A
REGISTRATION LINK SO THAT WE
CAN JUST REGISTER AHEAD OF TIME
BUT JUST WANT TO LET YOU GUYS
KNOW THAT THAT'S THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30TH AT 1:00 PM FOR THE
JAMES BAKER AWARDS CEREMONY AND
I HOPE THAT AGAIN OUR
COMMISSION CAN COME OUT AND
SUPPORT THAT AWARD RECIPIENT
AND CONGRATULATE THEM.
AND JUST TO GIVE A QUICK
BACKGROUND FOR THOSE THAT DON'T
KNOW YOU KNOW, IT'S AN AWARD
THAT'S SPONSORED BY THE U OF M
COUNSEL FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS
AND THE EQUITY AND CIVIL RIGHTS
AND THE TITLE NINE OFFICE AND
IT'S ALSO SUPPORT BY UNIVERSITY
HUMAN RESOURCES MICHIGAN
MEDICINE AND THE OFFICE OF THE
PRESIDENT AND IT'S PRESENTED TO
A FACULTY MEMBER STAFF MEMBER
STUDENT OR AN ALUM OF THE
UNIVERSITY FOR SIGNIFICANT
ACHIEVEMENTS IN EITHER
EMPOWERING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES ADVOCATING FOR OR
ADVANCING DISABILITY RIGHTS OR
DISABILITY JUSTICE OR
INCREASING THE ACCESSIBILITY
PROGRAM AND SERVICES TO PROMOTE
DISABILITY INCLUSION.
SO IT IS AN AWARD THAT TO ME
REALLY HAS A GREAT TRADITION
WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY AND THEN
ALSO WITHIN OUR GREAT
UNIVERSITY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
SO AGAIN HOPE ALL OF US CAN
ATTEND AND CONGRATULATE EACH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AWARD WINNER
THERE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
I ACTUALLY DID.
IT IS VERY EXCITING TO BE ABLE
TO GO IN PERSON BUT FOR ANYONE
YOU KNEW KEPT MENTIONING IN
PERSON.
BUT I WANT TO SHARE THAT IT IS
A HYBRID SO YOU CAN WHEN YOU GO
TO THE WEBSITE YOU CAN CHOOSE
WHETHER YOU WANT TO BE IN
PERSON OR ON ZOOM.
SO THAT MAKES IT EASIER FOR
THOSE OF US WHO CAN'T
NECESSARILY TRAVEL OR LIKE TO
BE ABLE TO HAVE THAT THAT SPACE
AND NOT BE IN IN WITH OTHER
FOLKS.
>> SO THAT'S ANOTHER EXCELLENT
WAY OF APPROACHING.
OH YES.
THANK YOU KATHLEEN.
GREAT POINT.
AND I THAT'S A GREAT CATCH.
YES.
FOR THOSE THAT CANNOT MAKE IT
IN PERSON, PLEASE KNOW THAT YOU
CAN ATTEND VIRTUALLY AND VIEW
THE CEREMONY AND CAN STILL
SUPPORT THAT WAY AS WELL AND
INFORMATION ON HOW TO REGISTER
FOR BOTH IN-PERSON AND VIRTUAL
WILL BE IN THE EMAIL INVITATION
THAT I SEND.
THANK COMMISSIONER MOSAD
COMMISSIONER PACARD OH SAY I
WAS THERE LAST YEAR.
IT REALLY IS A GREAT UNITING
OF GREAT FORCES AROUND HERE SO
WELL WORTH IT IF YOU CAN MAKE
IT IN PERSON.
>> JUST WANTED TO GO BACK OUT
THERE.
THANK YOU.
AND I WAS I THINK MY SIGNAL
WENT DOWN EARLIER WHEN I RAISED
MY HAND AND I WAS JUST GOING TO
THROW OUT A A PLUG THAT IF
ANYONE NOTICES ANY YELLOW LINES
IN OUR CITY THAT NEED TO BE
THERE TO DEMARKED FOR LOW
VISION RAMPS SIDEWALKS I KNOW
IT WAS BROUGHT TO OUR ATTENTION
DURING VISIONS AND I THINK IT'S
A GOOD EFFORT JUST TO KIND
OF THROW BACK TO THAT.
BUT OH WELL BEFORE THAT YEAH
IT'S AN ONGOING BUT IF ANYONE
CONTACTS LARRY OR MYSELF WE
WILL MAKE SURE WE KEEP KEEP IT
UP.
THANKS COMMISSIONER PACARD,
THIS IS COMMISSIONER HAWKINS.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I I
ECHO YOUR SENTIMENTS AS WELL.
>> I HAD ALSO ATTENDED WITH YOU
LAST YEAR SO WE COULD CELEBRATE
OUR COMMISSION MEMBER IESHA WHO
WON LAST YEAR.
>> SO JUST VERY, VERY PROUD
OF AISHA AND HER WORK AND WAS
THRILLED TO BE THERE
CELEBRATING HER AND IT'S REALLY
IMPRESSIVE TO SEE, YOU KNOW,
THE WORK THAT EVERYBODY IS
DOING AND IS BEING HIGHLIGHTED
AT THESE EVENTS AND THE
CONNECTIONS THAT GET MADE BY
ATTENDING A PERSON.
SO I WOULD ALSO RECOMMEND THAT
WELL YEAH.
>> THIS IS THIS IS AISHA.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I'LL ALSO BE
THERE DR. O IS REALLY
INCREDIBLE AND EXCITED TO YEAH
ABSOLUTELY.
AND THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
I WASN'T SURE IF IT WAS MADE
PUBLIC YET THAT THAT DR. WAS
THE RECIPIENT BUT WELL I
THOUGHT IT WAS I AT LEAST HEARD
BUT THERE IT WAS IT YEAH WELL
YEAH.
CONGRATULATIONS TO DR. OK AND
ME AND ON HIS WINNING OF THAT
WORD VERY WELL DESERVED.
>> SO LOOKING FORWARD TO THAT.
>> I ECHO THOSE SENTIMENTS AS
WELL DOCTOR.
IT'S INCREDIBLE REALLY DOES
SUCH AMAZING WORK IN ADAPTIVE
SPORTS AND IN THE MEDICAL
COMMUNITY.
SO GLAD WE'RE HONORING HIM.
SHOW OH RIGHT NEXT IF I MAY
FOLKS WE'RE JUST GOING TO MOVE
DOWN TO OLD BUSINESS UNDER THAT
WE HAVE THE SOCIAL MEDIA
DISCUSSION SO YEAH, I
UNDERSTAND THERE'S BEEN A PUSH
BY PP TO KIND OF START THAT
AND AND KEEP THAT GOING.
SO I WANTED TO KNOW ROB PACKARD
I THINK YOU'VE, YOU KNOW, SHOWN
INTEREST IN THIS SOCIAL MEDIA
COMMITTEE AND BEING ABLE TO
KIND OF HELP LEAD THOSE EFFORTS
THERE ON THIS DISCUSSION.
WHAT DO WE REALLY NEED TO KIND
OF MAKE THIS EFFORT MOVE
FORWARD SO THAT WE CAN HAVE
SOME SORT OF GOOD GOOD TRACTION
?
COMMISSIONER AND GUNBOWER, I
KNOW YOU ALSO HAVE SOME
INTEREST IN THE SOCIAL MEDIA
COMMITTEE AS WELL.
SO WHAT DO YOU ALL SUGGEST THAT
WE DO KIND OF GOING FORWARD
FROM TODAY TO GET SOME GOOD
MOMENTUM SO THAT WE CAN KIND
OF DO THE FACEBOOK THING ALL
THE SOCIAL MEDIA STUFF AND GET
THAT GOING FOR KODAI
MAJOR
PACKARD YOU'RE STILL MUTED.
THERE WE GO.
BETTER CAN YOU HEAR ME THOUGH?
YES.
OK, SO I'M GLAD TO MEET WITH A
GROUP HERE WHO'S INTERESTED IN
ESTABLISHING THOSE FEATURES.
I THINK FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM
ARE THE BASIC TWO AND WE HAD
TALKED ALSO ABOUT AND THAT WAS
JUST CAME UP EARLIER ABOUT
MEETING IN PUBLIC MORE AND
HYBRID'S MEETINGS THE IDEA
OF MAYBE OUR NEXT COMMISSION
MEETING WE COULD MAKE IT A
HYBRID WITH WHOEVER CAN MAKE IT
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS AND THAT
WOULD ALLOW US TO GET A GROUP
PHOTO TOGETHER AND KIND OF SEE
EACH OTHER'S FACES IF THAT'S
SOMETHING WE COULD SUPPORT AND
THAT COULD BE A GREAT WAY
OF LETTING THE COMMUNITY KNOW
WHO WE ARE AS WELL.
IF WE'RE ABLE TO DO SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S THE ONE TIME
WE TRY TO SET OUR SCHEDULES
FREE.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT WOULD
NEED TO BE PUT TO A VOTE.
THAT IDEA AND WOULD BE A GOOD
WAY FOR US TO SIDELINE, YOU
KNOW, AND COMMUNICATE WITH EACH
OTHER A LITTLE BIT BETTER GET
TO KNOW EACH OTHER IF THAT'S
SOMETHING WE COULD TRY FOR NEXT
NEXT MONTH AND AND THEN MAKE A
GOAL OF HAVING A PAGE READY TO
ADD THAT PICTURE TO YEAH.
RATHER I MEAN THESE ARE GREAT
POINTS.
YOU KNOW I JUST WANTED TO KNOW
I MEAN KIND OF HOW ARE YOU
PLANNING TO ORGANIZE SORT
OF THE SOCIAL MEDIA PAGES, SAM?
I MEAN MAYBE WE CAN YOU KNOW,
TRY TO SET UP TIME TO MEET FOR
A PICTURE AND DECEMBER AS WELL
SO WE CAN ALSO GET A FULL
COMMISSION PICTURE NOVEMBER OR
DECEMBER WHATEVER MONTH IS IS
BETTER WITH THE NOTICE THAT WE
WOULD WOULD WANT TO HAVE FOR US
ALL AND I THINK IT'S A MATTER
OF IS IS THERE ANYONE HERE WHO
ALSO FEELS THEY CAN HELP TO
CONSTRUCT A PAGE?
AND I THINK THERE'S THE ISSUE
WE HAVE TO ALL BE ABLE TO GET
TOGETHER AND AGREE ON WHAT WE
WHAT WE WANT AND WHAT WE WANT
TO REPRESENT AND THE PURPOSE SO
WE'RE ABLE TO GET TOGETHER IN
PERSON OR MAYBE HAVE A A A
GROUP MEETING IF IT HAS TO BE
ZOOME THAT'S I'M AVAILABLE FOR
EITHER.
YEAH.
I MEAN AND THERE'S BEEN YOU
KNOW, SUGGESTIONS OF EVEN DOING
A COMMISSION HOLIDAY PARTY AS
WELL.
SO I JUST WANTED TO PUT THAT UP
THAT WE COULD DO A COMMISSION
HOLIDAY PARTY AND THEN PLAN TO
MEET FOR THAT PHOTO AT THAT
PARTICULAR TIME IF THE IF
EVERYONE IS OPEN TO THAT, CAN
WE COULD I ASK YOU TO SEND OUT
A SURVEY TO ASK MISSIONERS IF A
PICTURE IN NOVEMBER OR DECEMBER
WOULD WORK BEST FOR THEM AND
THEN WE CAN KIND OF DETERMINE
THE SCHEDULE THERE?
>> YES, I CAN CREATE A DOODLE
POLL AND HAVE THAT SENT DOWN TO
THE COMMISSION TOMORROW AND
I'LL INCLUDE THE DATES OF THE
TWO MEETINGS.
>> OH WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
BUT YEAH I THINK I THINK GOING
FORWARD AND CREATING A
COMMISSION FACEBOOK AND
INSTAGRAM WOULD BE GREAT.
WE WOULD JUST NEED TO DETERMINE
WHO WOULD DRIVE THOSE.
SO WOULD IT BE COMMISSIONER
PACARD COMMISSIONER ACHIM BOWER
WHO WOULD DRIVE THOSE AND SORT
OF SET THOSE UP AND MAINTAIN
COMMISSIONER AND COMBOVER?
>> HAVE YOU SET UP ONE IN THE
YEAH SURE.
AND I DO I DO RESEARCH IN THIS
IS COMMISSIONER ACBAR.
YEAH I DO RESEARCH IN
TECHNOLOGY AND HAVE DONE THAT
KIND OF THING BEFORE SO YEAH I
THINK IT WOULD BE GOOD ALSO IF
THE SOCIAL MEDIA PRESENCE KIND
OF HAD AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO PRESENT OR FLAG MAYBE
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES IN ANN
ARBOR SUGGESTION'S OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT AS WELL.
SO MAYBE LIKE A GOOGLE FORM OR
SOMETHING TO A COMPANY A SOCIAL
MEDIA PRESENCE WHERE PEOPLE
COULD ANONYMOUSLY OR NOT
ANONYMOUSLY KIND OF RAISE
SUGGESTIONS OR ISSUES OR
CONCERNS OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
TO US IT'D BE KIND OF A GOOD
AVENUE I THINK AS WELL.
SO SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
YEAH, TOTALLY DOWN.
THAT'S A GREAT POINT TO BE ABLE
TO UTILIZE OUR SOCIAL MEDIA AS
A PLATFORM TO BRING ABOUT
DIFFERENT THINGS IN THE
COMMUNITY THAT ARE KIND OF YOU
HOT TOPICS THAT WE COULD
ADDRESS.
AND I THINK DOING THAT ALSO
ENGAGES OUR SOCIAL MEDIA
ACCOUNTS TO WHERE PEOPLE WOULD
ALSO FOLLOW AND KNOW WHAT'S
GOING ON.
SO I DEFINITELY I WOULD SAY,
YOU KNOW, IF YOU GUYS ARE OPEN
TO IT, I THINK KENNEDY ZOOME
FOR YOU GUYS AND THEN YOU KNOW
,YOU GUYS COULD MEET OVER
ZOOME AND DISCUSS SOME OTHER
WAYS AND THEN WHOEVER DECIDES
TO BE THE SOCIAL MEDIA
COMMITTEE CHAIR I THINK WOULD
BE SORT OF IN CHARGE OF KIND
OF DRIVING AND MAINTAINING
THOSE PAGES.
WE DEFINITELY HAVE A CATALOG
ALREADY OF PICTURES FROM PAST
EVENTS SO WHOEVER DECIDES TO
SHARE WHETHER THAT'S
COMMISSIONER PACKARD OR
COMMISSIONER LINCOLN BOWER
MYSELF AND OR POSSIBLY KENNEDY
,WE CAN PROVIDE YOU WITH SORT
OF THE ARCHIVE OF PHOTOS THAT
HAVE ALREADY BEEN POSTED AND
TAKEN SO THAT YOU HAVE SOME
MATERIALS TO WORK WITH.
I'M PRETTY OPEN THAT THERE'S A
TIME WE COULD ARRANGE TO MEET
THE TWO OR THREE OF US OR
ANYONE OF COURSE.
BUT I LOVE YOUR ATTITUDE AND
IDEA GIVING US A WAY TO SHARE
AND ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO LIKE
YOU SAID ANONYMOUSLY IF
NECESSARY AND HELP SHARE THEIR
CONCERNS ON WAYS THAT WE CAN
IMPROVE THE AREA.
JUST ANOTHER GREAT AVENUE AND I
ALSO WOULD LOVE IT TO BE A
PLACE WHERE WE CAN PROMOTE
THOSE WHO ARE DOING GREAT
THINGS OF LIKE THE AWARD THAT
YOU JUST WE JUST MENTIONED
EARLIER THINGS LIKE THAT AND
ANYTHING WE CAN PROMOTE
POSITIVITY AND GREAT THINGS
GOING ON AND RAISE AWARENESS
AND CONCERNS AS WELL.
THAT WOULD BE AMAZING.
SO I'M OPEN TO ANY IF WE CAN
TRY TO MAKE FOR NEXT WEEK SO
THAT AT TWO OR THREE OF US THAT
THAT'S OK.
UNALLOWED I MEAN I MEAN I WOULD
SAY THIS I THINK YOU KNOW,
KENNEDY I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK
FOR YOU BUT I THINK IN TERMS
OF ORGANIZATION I THINK
REACHING OUT TO KENNEDY AND
MYSELF THE NAMES
OF COMMISSIONERS WHO WOULD BE,
YOU KNOW, KIND OF PARTICIPATING
AND INTERESTED IN THE SOCIAL
MEDIA COMMITTEE AND THEN
BASICALLY, YOU KNOW, KENNEDY
CAN THEN SEND OUT THE EMAIL TO
BASICALLY SET UP THE TIME TO
MEET SO THAT YOU GUYS CAN BEGIN
THOSE DISCUSSIONS.
BUT IT'S I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR YOU KNOW, KENNEDY AS FAR AS
CITY ORGANIZATION GOES TO KNOW
WHO IS GOING TO BE INVOLVED IN
THAT.
YES, I'M ABLE TO DO THAT AS
LONG AS I HAVE A LIST I CAN
HELP SET UP A TIME FOR YOU ALL
TO MEET WHETHER THAT IS A TIME
YOU GUYS WANT TO MEET NEXT WEEK
IN PERSON OR VIRTUALLY IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO MEET IN PERSON.
I DO WANT TO MAKE YOU ALL WHERE
YOU DO HAVE THE OPTION TO
RESERVE MEETING ROOMS AT CITY
HALL DURING THE DAY.
SO IF THERE'S A PLACE YOU LIKE
TO CONVENIENTLY MEET I'M HAPPY
TO ARRANGE A MEETING SPACES FOR
YOU ALL AS WELL HERE AT CITY.
SO I JUST NEED TO KNOW
COMMISSIONER MUSAK.
YES.
I THINK THAT WHAT OUR
COMMISSIONER AND KEMBA SAID
ABOUT HAVING A FORUM A PLACE
FOR DISABLED FOLKS OR THEIR
ADVOCATES TO BE ABLE TO SAY HEY
FLAG SOMETHING I KNOW WE HAVE
TO FIX IT BUT THAT DOESN'T
ALWAYS MEET MY PERSONAL NEEDS.
I WOULD WANT TO GO A LITTLE
FURTHER AHEAD AND INVOLVE
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN ON
THIS QUESTION.
>> IF WE'RE GOING TO BE LOOKING
AT A FORM COUNCIL MEMBER WOULD
THEY NEED TO CONTACT LEGAL TO
FIND OUT HOW THAT COULD BE DONE
OR EVEN IF WE CAN DO SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
>> THAT WOULD BE MY ONLY
CONCERN.
YEAH.
HI, COMMISSIONER.
I WAS LIKE THIS IS THIS IS
AMERICA'S ADVENT.
SO THE QUESTION IS FOR THE
SOCIAL MEDIA ASPECT IF WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE A FORM WOULD WE
BE ABLE TO DO THAT?
>> IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?
WHAT I WAS SAYING IS THIS ONE
OF THE THE SUGGESTION FROM
COUNCIL MEMBER AND GUNBOWER WAS
HAVING A FORM FORUM ONLINE SO
THAT PEOPLE COULD MAKE
COMPLAINTS ONLINE COMPLAINTS
DIRECTLY TO THE OH YES.
>> TWEEKS ME A LITTLE BIT.
I WONDER IF WE SHOULDN'T BE
CONTACTING LEGAL JUST LIKE
THAT.
>> YOU I THINK WE WOULD HAVE TO
AND YOU CAN ALSO ASSIST IN MY
RESPONSE WITH THIS IS THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO ASK
LEGAL AND COMMUNICATION.
BUT I DO WANT TO LIKE EMPHASIZE
THAT ESPECIALLY COMMISSIONER IN
CANBERRA BECAUSE OF YOUR
RESEARCH AND JUST YOUR
BACKGROUND IN INACCESSIBLE
TECHNOLOGY AND WEB USAGE.
I MEAN, YES, WE HAVE A NEW
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS BUT
WE REALLY NEED TO ADVOCATE FOR
ACCESSIBLE UNIVERSAL DESIGN
ACROSS ALL THESE PLATFORMS
INCLUDING HOW CONSTITUENTS
ENGAGE WITH US, HOW WE ENGAGE
WITH THE PUBLIC, HOW COMPLAINTS
ARE RECORDED AND MADE SO I'M
ACTUALLY WONDERING MAYBE IF A
BIGGER PICTURE QUESTION HERE IS
COULD SHOULD WE ASK THE NEW
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS TO
COME TO THE NEXT MEETING
AND
TELL IF IT IS GOING TO BE A
COMPLAINT FORM?
I DO KNOW CURRENTLY THE
COMMISSION DOES NOT HAVE ONE SO
IF THEY WERE GOING TO HAVE ONE
I DO THINK THAT WOULD NEED TO
BE REVIEWED BY LEGAL I WOULD
HAVE TO CHECK WITH WHAT SARAH
HIGGINS.
BUT AS FAR AS SOME TYPE
OF FORUM OR LIKE SURVEY FORM, I
BELIEVE THAT SOMETHING THAT
COULD BE CREATED I KNOW FOR
EXAMPLE LIKE THE COMMISSION
OF POLICE OVERSIGHT AND HUMAN
RIGHTS AND THEY DO HAVE
COMPLAINT FORMS AND IT IS
AVAILABLE ON THE WEBSITE.
I KNOW LIKE WITH KODAI A
COMPLAINT FORM WAS NEVER REALLY
MADE.
IT'S MORE LIKE CONTACT KODALY
IF YOU HAVE LIKE AN ISSUE BUT
IF THERE WAS SOME TYPE
OF COMPLAINT FORM I THINK IT
WOULD NEED TO BE LIKE THE
LANGUAGE AND STUFF TO BE
REFERRAL ALSO TO GOING WITH
THAT I AM NOT MISTAKEN I
BELIEVE LIKE WITH OUR WEBSITE
POLICY I BELIEVE IT'S LIKE
WITHIN THEIR LIKE WHAT POLICIES
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
>> YEAH JUST SO YEAH SO THAT
SOMETHING LIKE AGAIN LIKE THE
COMMITTEE WOULD LIKE TO DO I'M
HAPPY TO PROVIDE THAT THE THE
THE POLICY AND OTHER
INFORMATION ABOUT LIKE WEBSITE
DESIGN TO LIKE WHAT YOU CAN AND
CANNOT HAVE SO THAT THE
COMMISSION CAN KNOW THE TYPE
OF THINGS THAT ARE AVAILABLE.
>> YEAH I THINK YOU CAN I THINK
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
I THINK IF YOU CAN ASK THE
ATTORNEYS IF WE CAN DESIGN A
COMPLAINT FROM THEM, IF WE CAN
DESIGN A DRAFT AND THEN THEY
CAN REVIEW IT, THAT WOULD BE
GREAT.
AND THEN I THINK THE LARGER
QUESTION IS LET'S ASK THE
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS IF
THEY CAN COME TO A MEETING AND
WE CAN ASK ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY
ACROSS ALL PLATFORMS.
I THINK THESE ARE LIKE TWO
DIFFERENT CONNECTED THINGS.
>> I GUESS I DO KNOW THAT THE
ME I WOULD JUST NEED SO ONCE
THE COMMITTEE IS
CREATED WHOEVER THE COMMITTEE
CHAIR IS, ONCE WE HAVE LIKE A
TIME SET FOR LIKE THE MEETING,
EVERYTHING LIKE THAT OR LIKE
THE GROUP I CAN SEND OUT AN
EMAIL WITH THE POLICIES AN
ELECTRONIC COPY THAT YOU GUYS
WOULD LIKE HARD COPIES I CAN
HAVE THOSE FOR YOU GUYS AS WELL
AND THEN YOU WOULD JUST NEED TO
DRAFT THE COMMITTEE WOULD JUST
NEED TO DRAFT WHAT THEY WHAT
THEY WOULD LIKE THE FORM TO
HAVE OR LOOK LIKE.
AND THEN ONCE I HAVE THAT
LANGUAGE I CAN GO AHEAD AND
HAVE THAT REVIEWED BY ATTORNEYS
TO MAKE SURE THAT'S RIGHT.
>> YEAH THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
>> AND THEN KENNEDY, WOULD YOU
BE ABLE TO REACH OUT TO THE
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR AND YOU
CAN SEE ME ON IT?
>> YES.
I DON'T KNOW AS WELL PLEASE.
>> YEAH.
YES.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE ONCE I GET
I CAN DOUBLE CHECK THEIR EMAIL
IS SET UP YET.
I KNOW THIS WAS JUST AN OUT SO
I DON'T KNOW IF THEIR
CREDENTIALS HAVE BEEN
CREATED YET BUT ONCE THERE SOME
CONTACT INFORMATION I CAN REACH
OUT TO THE DIRECTOR
OF COMMUNICATION ALSO IN THE
MEANTIME TO WE DO HAVE AN
ACTING DIRECTOR SO I'M ALSO
ABLE TO REACH OUT TO THEM TO
SEE IF THEY KNOW OR HAVE ANY
INFORMATION ON ON IT AS WELL.
SO WE'RE HAPPY, YOU KNOW.
OK, COMMISSIONER HAWKINS.
YES, I COMPLETELY AGREE THAT
ALL OF THIS IS A GOOD IDEA.
I JUST WANTED TO ADVOCATE FOR
HAVING SOME ADDITIONAL SUB
PAGES BECAUSE I I KNOW WE
FREQUENTLY MENTION LIKE THESE
EVENTS THAT ARE GOING ON LIKE
THROUGH ADLE OR VISIONS OR
THINGS THAT ARE ACCESSIBLE
THROUGH BAAT OR OR THINGS THAT
ARE GOING ON IN C10.
I JUST REALLY THINK IT WOULD BE
REALLY HELPFUL TO HAVE THAT ON
THE WEBSITE TOO EVEN IF IT'S
LIKE AN EVENT CALENDAR.
YOU KNOW THE THINGS THAT ARE
HAPPENING AT SCALE CAN BE
INCLUDED BECAUSE I KNOW NOT
EVERYONE IS GOING TO LISTEN TO
THE MEETING MINUTES, YOU KNOW,
JUST TO FIGURE OUT WHAT'S GOING
ON.
SO IF IT WERE ON THE WEBSITE AS
WELL, I KNOW THAT WOULD
PROBABLY MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE
TO PEOPLE ACTUALLY BEING ABLE
TO KNOW WHEN EVENTS ARE
HAPPENING
.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER HAWKINS, I
MEAN I DEFINITELY AGREE WITH
THAT IDEA OF HAVING A STANDING
CALENDAR.
YOU ON OUR WEB PAGE BUT THEN
THEN HOPEFULLY THAT CAN BE
CONNECTED TO THE GAMES IN TERMS
OF DISABILITY AWARENESS DAYS
ADA CELEBRATIONS.
YEAH, EVENTS WITH WITH GOING ON
AT THE LIBRARY EVENTS HAPPENING
ELSEWHERE IN THE COMMUNITY.
I THINK THAT IS VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT.
THE KEY IS IS THERE A CALENDAR
THAT CAN BE UPDATED EASILY AND
OR AUTOMATED TO SORT OF INPUT
CERTAIN INFORMATION SO THAT
IT'S NOT I WOULD SAY TOO TAXING
ON ANYONE SO I THINK LOOKING AT
THAT PROCESSES AND KIND OF HOW
THAT CAN WORK WOULD BE
IMPORTANT FOR THAT.
>> BUT I AGREE WITH YOU THERE
CHAIR DAMAN I WAS JUST GOING TO
SAY AS WELL LIKE EVEN BRINGING
UP THE STUFF ABOUT KEANNA IN
ANN ARBOR OCCLUSIVE LIKE IT
COULD BE LIKE A SUB PAGE THAT
JUST EXPLAINS YOU KNOW WHAT ANN
ARBOR INCLUSIVE IS AND HAS JUST
THE GENERAL LINK FOR THEIR
YOUTUBE PAGE AND IF THERE WAS A
WAY WE COULD SET IT SO IT
AUTOMATICALLY POST WHATEVER THE
MOST RECENT EPISODE WAS THAT
HAD BEEN UPLOADED OR EVEN IF IT
WAS JUST THEIR GENERAL YOUTUBE
PAGE AND THEN PEOPLE COULD
CHECK IT.
SO LIKE I DON'T WANT TO CREATE
MORE WORK FOR COMMISSIONER
ARCHERD BOUAR.
BUT I DO THINK HAVING SOME KIND
OF CENTRALIZED CALENDAR WOULD
BE HELPFUL IF WE CAN FIGURE OUT
A WAY TO DO IT THAT IT'S NOT
TOO TIME INTENSIVE FOR ANY ONE
PERSON TO MANAGE.
>> RIGHT?
ABSOLUTELY.
SO WELL OK.
I MEAN SO I THINK JUST
COMPILING A LIST
OF COMMISSIONERS WHO WILL BE
PARTICIPATING ON THIS COMMITTEE
AND SENDING THAT OVER TO CAN BE
AS A STARTING POINT WOULD BE
GREAT.
AND THEN I THINK FROM THEN ON,
YOU KNOW, I THINK THEN FROM
THERE CAN BE CAN CAN EMAIL
EVERYONE SO THAT THEY CAN KIND
OF DECIDE WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO
MEET AND GO FROM THERE.
SO YEAH, PLEASE FEEL FREE.
KENNEDY I GUESS IT MIGHT JUST
BE EASIER FOR YOU TO ASK RIGHT
NOW BESIDES COMMISSIONER
INCOMMODE AND COMMISSIONER
PACARD ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS PRESIDENT HERE
TODAY THAT WOULD LIKE TO
PARTICIPATE ON THIS COMMITTEE
SO THAT WHEN I DO SEND THAT
EMAIL OUT I CAN INCLUDE YOU ON
THERE IF YOU ARE ON DECISIVE
RIGHT NOW THAT'S TOTALLY FINE.
>> YOU CAN JUST SHOOT ME AN
EMAIL AS WELL LETTING ME KNOW
IF YOU'D LIKE TO PARTICIPATE.
>> SO IF YOU WANT TO RAISE YOUR
HAND OR JUST SIGNIFY OK YOU'RE
DAMAN YOU PARTICIPATE.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH I JUST MAKE A QUICK
COMMENT AS CHAIRMAN I WOULD
CONSIDER MYSELF JUST AN AD-HOC
MEMBER OF THE COMMITTEE AND IF
AND WHEN I AM ABLE TO MAKE THE
MEETINGS I WILL BUT AT LEAST
THE THE EMAIL CHAIN SO THAT I
CAN BE ALL OF THE OTHER
COMMITTEE MEMBERS SO THAT IF
THEY NEED ASSISTANCE OR PHOTOS
OR CONTENT I CAN HELP THEM WITH
THAT.
NO OTHER HANDS AGAIN YOU JUST
SIT AND JOIN IN THE COMMITTEE.
JUST PLEASE SHOOT ME AN EMAIL
OR GIVE ME A CALL AT THE OFFICE
AND I WILL MAKE SURE WHEN THE
COMMUNICATION GOES OUT TO
SCHEDULE A MEETING AND TO SEND
OUT THE POLICY THAT YOU ARE
INCLUDED
.
ONE MORE THING I AM UNMUTED
CORRECT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
JUST VERY MUCH BEING CLOSELY
INVOLVED WITH OUR NEW
CONSTITUENTS DIRECTLY BECAUSE I
MEAN SOCIAL MEDIA AS WE KNOW
CAN GO IN MANY DIRECTIONS AND
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
OBVIOUSLY PEOPLE WOULD WANT TO
POST IT WOULD HAVE TO BE
APPROVED THROUGH AN
ADMINISTRATOR OF COURSE SO BUT
I THINK THEY SHOULD ABSOLUTELY
BE INVOLVED SO THAT PEOPLE
CAN'T JUST FILE CLAIMS OUT
THERE THAT COULD PUT PEOPLE AT
RISK SO YEAH, THE MORE HELP THE
BETTER COLLABORATION.
>> THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER PACKARD.
YEAH, SO AT THIS TIME I THINK
I'LL MOVE ON.
IS THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS ON THIS TOPIC?
ALL RIGHT.
UM NEXT UM UNDER NEW BUSINESS
WE HAVE THE COMMISSION BYLAWS
REVIEW AND ELECTION DISCUSSION
AND I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO THAT
SO PLEASE.
ALL RIGHT.
I'VE GOT YOU.
WE CAN DISCUSS IT AFTER I'VE
GOT A PROPOSAL.
I'VE GOT SOME OTHER I'VE GOT A
FEW THINGS ACCORDING TO US
ACCORDING TO OUR BYLAWS
COMMISSIONER DAMINI OR
COMMISSIONER DAMON IS THAT A
GREAT, GREAT, GREAT JOB WE'RE
ACCORDING TO THE BYLAWS OR
ANTIQUATED WE COULD SWITCH
POSITIONS OR WE WERE WE COULD
HAVE NEW VICE CHAIR AND VICE
CHAIR ACCORDING TO THE BYLAWS
AND THAT'S WHY I REFERRED TO
ARTICLE SIX SECTIONS ONE, TWO
AND MAYBE THREE AND SO THAT
I'VE GOT A FEW OTHER CHANGES
I'D LIKE IN THESE IN THESE
BYLAWS BECAUSE THIS IS UNCLEAR
ABOUT THE NOVEMBER NOVEMBER IS
UNCLEAR.
SO WHAT I'D LIKE TO PROPOSE IS
THAT WE POSTPONE OUR ELECTIONS
TILL JUNE AND WE DO OUR
NOMINATIONS OF ANYBODY
NOMINATED IN MAY BECAUSE IT
SAYS ACCORDING TO A SOURCE WITH
A VOTE IN NOVEMBER
OR JUNE.
BUT I THINK THAT IF WE WANT TO
CHANGE THE BYLAWS I DO SEE A
LITTLE SECTION OF TWO IN HERE
THAT WOULD RATHER I WOULD LIKE
TO CLARIFY A LITTLE MORE THAT
WE FORM A BYLAWS COMMITTEE THAT
COULD EVENTUALLY DO MORE THAN
THIS MORE THAN JUST THE
SECTION.
BUT I WAS THINKING ABOUT THIS
SECTION BECAUSE OUR ELECTIONS
ARE COMING UP VERY QUICK THAT I
WAS PROPOSING TO TABLE THE
ELECTION UNTIL JUNE AND WE
COULD WORK ON SEEING THIS OR DO
WE WANT TO KEEP THE BYLAWS THE
SAME OR DO WE WANT TO CHANGE
THE PARTICULAR ARTICLES
ESPECIALLY ARTICLE ONE AND TWO
SO THAT YOU KNOW, WE CAN
CONTINUE TO DO WHAT WE'RE DOING
OUR YOU KNOW, MAYBE PUT
DIFFERENT FOLKS IN CHARGE OF AT
LEAST JUST CHANGE UP AND WHAT
WE CAN LEGALLY CHANGE UP AND I
COULD BE CHANGED AND THE SAID
THEY WOULD GIVE ME LAST YEAR I
AT LEAST ACCORDING TO THESE
BYLAWS I WOULD GO SO FAR KIND
OF SET OUT MY NEXT TERM AND
TAKE A TAKE A TERM OFF.
BUT THAT'S HERE NO THIS SO YEAH
I WOULD LIKE TO WELL OK WELL
FIRST VICE CHAIR I JUST HAVE A
QUICK COMMENT AND THEN I'LL GET
TO YOU COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT I DON'T BELIEVE THE BYLAWS
CAN BE CHANGED WITHOUT COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
I THINK COUNCIL NEEDS TO
APPROVE THE CHANGES BEFORE THEY
ARE SOLIDIFIED.
SO I DON'T THINK OUR COMMISSION
CAN JUST AMEND THE BYLAWS AND
HAVE THAT BE THAT I THINK IT
HAS TO GO THROUGH COUNCIL IF
I'M CORRECT, I HAVE DECIDED
THAT WE COULD IN SOME FIND
THAT'S WHAT NEEDS TO BE RIGHT.
>> COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, I
JUST WANTED TO SPEECHES
SOMETHING THAT LARRY SAID IT IN
THE BYLAWS.
IT SAYS ELECTIONS TAKE PLACE IN
NOVEMBER OR THE NEXT MEETING
NOT JUNE.
>> IT SAYS THE NEXT MEETING.
SO THAT WOULD BE DECEMBER OR
JANUARY AND JUST JULY 2ND AND I
WE USED TO DO ELECTIONS IN
JUNE.
>> I UNDERSTAND BUT I'M LOOKING
AT THE BYLAWS RIGHT NOW AND I
DON'T SEE THAT AS AN OPTION.
IT SAYS ELECTIONS NOVEMBER 30TH
OF THE SECOND FOLLOWING YEAR OR
THE FOLLOWING AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE AFTER THE NEXT REGULAR
MEETING IS WHAT IT SAYS IT
DOESN'T SAY JUNE OR JULY IN THE
BYLAWS ALSO TO JULY JUNE.
OK, WELL YEAH ACTUALLY WE HAVE
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN
STILL ON SO COUNCIL MEMBER DO
YOU MIND JUST CLARIFYING
CHANGES IN THE BYLAWS?
THEY MUST BE APPROVED BY
COUNCIL, CORRECT?
>> I AM ALMOST CERTAIN AND THIS
IS THIS IS THAT I AM ALMOST
CERTAIN THAT IS THE CASE BUT I
CAN LOOK IT UP REALLY QUICK.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> YES I KNOW WE JUST WORK ON
BYLAWS FOR TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION AS FAR AS I KNOW WE
DIDN'T HAVE TO GO TO TO THE
COUNCIL WHAT MAYBE WE DID DO
YOU LET ME LET ME SEE
BUT I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
YOU THE PROCESSES OF MAKE SURE
THAT YOU KNOW WHERE YOU KNOW
DOING THINGS AS THE BYLAWS ARE
WRITTEN OR YOU KNOW, IF THERE
ARE AMENDMENTS AND ADJUSTMENTS
THAT WE WANT TO MAKE TO THE
BYLAWS THAT WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY AS A COMMISSION TO
CONSIDER.
BUT AGAIN, JUST DOING IT
THROUGH THE DUE PROCESS
PROCESSES WHICH AGAIN I BELIEVE
IS THROUGH THROUGH COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
>> SO THEY ARE SUBJECT TO
APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL AND
OUR BYLAWS AND RULES CONSISTENT
WITH THE CHAPTER SUBJECT TO
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
YES.
UM, I GO HOME I MEAN I'M JUST
READING SOME STUFF ON THE CITY
WEBSITE CLAIMS OK, THAT LOOKS
LIKE THE BYLAWS WERE AMENDED IN
MARCH OF TWENTY SIXTEEN WHICH
CLARIFY THE MEMBERSHIP
REQUIREMENT.
>> THAT'S THE LAST TIME WE
AMENDED IT.
SO I THINK I DO REMEMBER THAT
YEAH.
>> SO I THINK THAT WHAT WE
WOULD DO IS WE COULD SUGGEST
LIKE AN AMENDMENT AND WE COULD
SEND IT TO THE CITY ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE TO SAY DOES THIS CONFORM
TO YOU KNOW, THE CITY CHARTER
AND CODE ?
AND IF THEY SAY YES, THEN WE
COULD SUBMIT THOSE PROPOSED
CHANGES AS A LEGISLATIVE ITEM
SO IT WOULD GO ON THE CITY
COUNCIL AGENDA.
OK, SO THE NEXT QUESTION IS
THEN WHAT WOULD WE DO ABOUT THE
UPCOMING ELECTION?
WOULD WE HOLD THE ELECTION
ACCORDING TO THESE BYLAWS THEN
AND THEN WAIT FOR YOU IN THAT
CASE IF WE HAVE THE ELECTION
TECHNICALLY WE'D HAVE TO HOLD
IT TODAY.
IT LOOKS LIKE BECAUSE IT SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT AND BY THE
THIRTY FIRST OF NOVEMBER
PROBABLY NOT OCTOBER , NOVEMBER
AND SO SOME THE THIRTY OK, SO
THE ELECTION NEXT MONTH WOULD
STILL NEED TO TAKE PLACE IF THE
COMMISSION WOULD LIKE TO AMEND
SECTIONS AND THE BYLAWS THEY
CAN BUT AGAIN THAT HAS TO BE
REVIEWED AND THEN IT WOULD HAVE
TO BE TAKEN TO COUNCIL FOR
FURTHER REVIEW AND APPROVE AND
I KNOW THAT THEIR NEXT MEETINGS
ARE NOVEMBER 3RD AND NOVEMBER
17TH.
YES, COMMISSIONER, THANK YOU.
>> YES.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT WE
ALSO NEED TO GET SOME SORT
OF CONSENSUS IT SOUNDS LIKE
TODAY IF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
HAVING ELECTIONS IN NOVEMBER
OF WHETHER THE COMMISSION AS A
WHOLE WANTS TO CHANGE THE
BYLAWS OR LEAVE THEM IN THE WAY
THEY ARE, YOU KNOW, THAT HAS TO
BE A FULL COMMISSION DECISION
AND I REALLY THINK WE NEED SOME
REALLY GOOD DISCUSSION ON IT.
>> SO THE COMMISSION WOULD NEED
TO DECIDE TODAY IF THEY ARE
GOING TO KEEP THE BYLAWS THE
SAME OR IF YOU GUYS ARE SEEKING
TO CHANGE THEM AND THEN
FOLLOWING THERE THE STEPS AND
PROCESS OF HOW THOSE BYLAWS GET
A BIT OF .
SO IF YOU GUYS WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE A DISCUSSION NOW TO DECIDE
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO KEEP THE
BYLAWS OR CHANGE THEM, YOU GUYS
CAN RUN QUESTION I HAVE IS THE
OTHER QUESTION THAT BEGS IS SO
IF WE START WE'D START TO HOLD
NOVEMBER ELECTIONS, CORRECT?
CORRECT.
BECAUSE WE COULDN'T IF THERE IS
A VOTE TO CHANGE THE BYLAWS ARE
TO LOOK AT THE BYLAWS THERE'S
THEY'LL STILL BE IN EFFECT
UNTIL WE SUBMIT THE CHANGES.
>> YES.
AND THEN FROM AND GETTING
SUBMITTED THEY WOULD THEN NEED
TO GO TO COUNCIL FOR I BELIEVE
FIRST AND A SECOND READING AND
THEN THOSE CHANGES WITH COUNCIL
APPROVAL WOULD BE APPROVED FOR
FOR STILL FOR NEXT MONTH WE'LL
HAVE TO NOMINATE AND NOMINATE
FOR CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.
>> CORRECT BECAUSE THAT'S
ANYBODY YOU KNOW, ANYBODY WHO
WANTS IT CAN BE NOMINATED.
WE CAN NOMINATE WHO THEY CAN
NOMINATE THEMSELVES.
CORRECT.
AND SO WE DO THAT NEXT MONTH.
>> WE COULD DO THAT TODAY.
YOU WOULD DO THAT NEXT MONTH ON
PROJECT I'M SORRY BUT I JUST
WANT TO MAKE A QUICK CLARIFYING
COMMENT SO IT WILL NOT HAVE TO
GO FOR A FIRST AND SECOND
READING WITH OK NO YEAH OR YEAH
IT'S NOT A LAW CHANGE SO JUST F
I JUST HAVE TO GO TO ONE
MEETING AND IT'S FAIRLY EASY.
I'VE NEVER SEEN YOU KNOW
COUNCIL REALLY SCRUTINIZE IT.
I MEAN THEY TRUST THE
COMMISSIONS, THEY REVIEW IT BUT
IT SHOULD BE ONE MEETING SO WE
WOULD JUST PLAY IN A PROPOSAL
WE DON'T HAVE TO PUT IN THE
CHANGES THIS TIME.
RIGHT.
WE COULD JUST PUT IT SO THAT WE
CHANGE OUR BYLAWS OR DO WE HAVE
TO TELL THEM EXACTLY WHAT WE
WANT TO DO WITH IT?
>> I MEAN WE IDENTITY NO GOOD
YOU'RE GOOD.
I WAS GOING TO SAY THAT WE
COULD VOTE INTERNALLY TO
RECOMMEND CHANGES TO OUR BYLAWS
THEN WRITE THEM UP THEN FOR
THEM TO THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND SEE IF THEY'D BE WILLING TO
TAKE IT TO THE MEETING NEXT
WEEK.
>> BUT LIKE I SAID, I THINK
THERE NEEDS TO BE A LARGER
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHETHER OR
YOU KNOW, THE MAJORITY OF THAT
.
>> YES.
SO I DON'T WANT TO MOVE TOO
FAST BUT WE JUST THAT'S VERY
YOU HAVE TO WRITE A WHOLE
RESOLUTION.
>> IT'S JUST A FEW SENTENCES
OF WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO CHANGE
.
SEND IT TO THE TO THE LEGAL
DEPARTMENT AND THEN THEY'LL PUT
IT ON THE AGENDA.
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, I WOULD
LIKE TO PAUSE AND BOOKMARK THIS
FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I FEEL LIKE WE'RE ALREADY
REALLY GETTING AHEAD
OF OURSELVES.
SO AGAIN, I REALIZE WE HAVE
EXACTLY EIGHT MINUTES LEFT BUT
I THINK THIS NEEDS TO BE
DEFERRED TO A FUTURE MEETING
FOR FULL DISCUSSION TIME ON THE
AGENDA AS A BULLET POINT ON OUR
AGENDA PROS AND CONS RIGHT FOR
DISCUSSION, NO FOREGONE
CONCLUSIONS, COMMISSIONER.
THE THEN THEN GO AHEAD
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS' HI.
I JUST WANTED TO JUST WANTED TO
ASK I KNOW WE'RE DOWN
A FEW
PEOPLE ON THE COMMITTEE.
ARE WE MISSING ANYBODY TODAY IN
TERMS OF , YOU KNOW, KIND
OF HAVING A DISCUSSION
OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD HAVE NEEDED
TO BE HERE TO MAKE THAT
DECISION?
I JUST WANTED TO DOUBLE CHECK I
AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
THAT IT'S IT'S PRETTY GOOD
RIGHT NOW.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO SEE YOU.
>> WE ARE MISSING ONE
COMMISSIONER IS ABSENT TODAY.
OK, EVERYONE ELSE IS HERE.
>> OK, THANKS FOR CLARIFYING.
YES I MAKE THE MOST OF THIS OR
WHAT'S THE PERCEIVED
PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE ON
THIS?
>> YEAH, THE PROCEDURE THEN
COMMISSIONERS WOULD THEN BE A
MOTION TO PUT THIS ON THE
AGENDA FOR NEXT MONTH SO THAT
WE CAN FULLY DISCUSS THIS AND
THEN MOVE FORWARD IN THE
PROCESS.
>> THAT'S THE MOTION I'M GOING
TO MAKE UNLESS COMMISSIONER
FOLLAIN WANTS TO MAKE IT PLEASE
GO AHEAD LARRY.
>> YOU UNDERSTAND PARLIAMENTARY
PROCEDURE FAR BETTER THAN I DO.
>> I I'D LIKE TO THINK SO BUT
WE'LL SEE I I MOVE THAT WE HAVE
A DISCUSSION ABOUT CHANGING THE
BYLAWS IN AND IN THE NEAR
FUTURE.
>> LET'S PUT IT ON THE NEXT
AGENDA AND WE'LL GO FROM THERE
.
THIS IS THE NEXT I I SECOND BUT
I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO MAKE SURE
BECAUSE I KNOW THIS
CONVERSATION CAN POSSIBLY TAKE
SOME TIME SO I'D LIKE TO MAKE
SURE LARRY THAT WHEN YOU AND I
REVIEW THE AGENDA THAT WE CAN
DETERMINE VIA THE CORRECT
LOCATION FOR THIS ON THE AGENDA
.
I WOULD AGREE WITH THAT AND I
WOULD ALSO I HAD SOMETHING ELSE
AND I FORGOT I WOULD AGREE THAT
THAT'S THAT'S NOT EVEN A
COMMENT NOT A FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT.
SO FOR MAX OH YEAH.
GO AHEAD.
>> GO AHEAD.
OH, AND I GUESS THE SLIGHT
AMENDMENT I'D LIKE TO MAKE TO
THAT IS WE DISCUSSED HOW WE
COULD DO THAT NEXT MEETING.
BUT I WANT TO DISCUSS MAYBE WE
CAN HAVE A COMMITTEE TO DO THAT
SO WE DIDN'T TAKE UP COMMISSION
TIME AS MUCH WE COULD FORM A
COMMITTEE TO DO THAT TO REVIEW
THE BYLAWS.
YEAH, IF THIS IS GOING TO COME
BEFORE US, OBVIOUSLY WE NEED
THE BYLAWS IN FRONT OF US AND
WE NEED, YOU KNOW, A COUPLE
SENTENCES ON WHAT'S BEING
PROPOSED LIKE OTHERWISE WE
CAN'T REALLY HAVE A DISCUSSION
SO YOU KNOW THOSE ON THE
COMMITTEE THAT ARE INVESTED IN
MAKING THIS CHANGE I DO FEEL
IT'S INCUMBENT UPON YOU TO COME
UP WITH A FEW SENTENCES AS WELL
AS SUPPLYING US WITH THE BYLAWS
.
AGAIN, I HAVE NO PROBLEM WITH
THIS IN THEORY NECESSARY AND I
HAVE NO QUESTION WITH THE
CURRENT LEADERSHIP BUT JUST WE
NEED PREPARATION AND THIS THIS
KIND OF SNUCK UP ON ME A LITTLE
BIT.
YOU KNOW, HOCKINGS, I DO WANT
TO ADD SOMETHING LARRY.
I KNOW I THINK I'D BRING UNLESS
YOU WANT TO ADD SOMETHING MY MY
ONLY QUESTION WAS I'M JUST
WONDERING I KNOW THERE ARE
TIMES YOU'VE COME CLOSE TO NOT
HAVING A QUORUM LIKE WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN IF WE MEET AGAIN IN
NOVEMBER.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH PEOPLE TO
MAKE THIS DECISION ABOUT EITHER
DEFERRING IT OR FOLDING IT.
IS THERE SOME KIND OF NEGATIVE
RAMIFICATION IF WE ARE NOT ABLE
TO HAVE THE VOTE IN NOVEMBER?
>> NO.
THAT ANY CONDITION WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE BEFORE ANY COMMISSION
MEETING WE'RE SUPPOSED TO HAVE
A QUORUM SO FOR THERE TO BE A
VOTE ON THIS TOPIC AT THE NEXT
MEETING WE HAVE TO HAVE A
QUORUM AT THE MEETING FIRST
BEFORE THE MEETING GOT STARTED
.
>> SO WE HAVE TO WAIT TILL THE
NEXT MEETING WE HAD A QUORUM AT
CORRECT.
>> SO IF THE NOVEMBER MEETING
FOR SOME REASON THERE WASN'T A
QUORUM THAT WOULD GET CANCELED
AND THEN THE NEXT MEETING THE
DECEMBER MEETING WOULD BE THE
NEXT MEETING TO MAKE SURE WE
HAD A QUORUM FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
>> SO WE HAVE TO HAVE A QUORUM
.
WE HAVE GOT TO GET WOULD HAVE
TO WAIT TILL THE NEXT ONE EVEN
IF WAS A COUPLE OF MONTHS.
SO THERE WOULD BE NO
RAMIFICATIONS EXCEPT THAT WE
CAN DO IT.
YEAH.
THANKS FOR THANKS FOR
EXPLAINING, LARRY.
I JUST WANTED TO DOUBLE CHECK
YOU KNOW, IF THERE WAS A
RAMIFICATION ON THE TIMELINE,
IF WE IF WE WEREN'T ABLE TO DO
IT IN NOVEMBER.
SO I I UNDERSTAND THAT, YOU
KNOW, WITHOUT THE QUORUM THIS
IS A MOOT POINT.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO I WANTED
TO SEE IF THERE ARE OTHER
THINGS WE NEEDED TO CONSIDER
.
BUT COMMISSIONER DAVID MY
CHAIRMAN I SAID WE SHOULD BE
CALLED A QUESTION.
>> THERE'S REALLY NO DISCUSSION
OR MOSADDEQ HAS HER HANDS.
YEAH, I'D LIKE TO POUR ROBERT'S
RULES, HAVE DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION PLEASE.
MY DISCUSSION SURROUNDS THE
MOTION ITSELF.
I THINK WE NEED TO BE A LITTLE
BIT MORE SPECIFIC.
>> I BELIEVE THE MOTION ONLY
STATED THAT IT WAS REGARDING
BYLAWS AND I THINK WE NEED TO
BE MORE POINTED.
WE'RE SPECIFICALLY TALKING
ABOUT BYLAWS AND ELECTION
OF OFFICERS IN TERM LIMITS.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT
WOULD LOOK LIKE IN A IN A
MOTION BUT I DON'T THINK JUST
SAYING WE WANT TO LOOK AT THE
BYLAWS IS ENOUGH.
>> THAT WAS THAT'S JUST MY
OPINION.
WELL, THIS IS GERARD AND THEN
I'M GOING TO SAY THAT WE NEED
TO SET UP A SEPARATE TIME TO
DISCUSS THIS AND GIVE OURSELVES
FULL TIME TO DO THAT BECAUSE WE
WE COULD DISCUSS IT AT THE
AGENDA BUT IT WOULD GO UNDER
OLD BUSINESS WHICH WOULD THEN
PUT A LOT OF OUR OTHER AGENDA
ITEMS PRIOR WHICH WOULD NOT
GIVE US I THINK AMPLE TIME TO
DISCUSS THIS IN LENGTH.
SO I PROPOSE THAT THE BYLAWS
DISCUSSION IS, YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING THAT WE WE GIVE
OURSELVES AMPLE TIME TO DISCUSS
AND EITHER WE HAVE WE CHOOSE TO
HAVE A COMMITTEE OR WE DISCUSS
THIS AND WE HOLD A SPECIAL
MEETING TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE
AMPLE TIME.
>> NOW I HEAR YOU I THOUGHT THE
MOTION TODAY THAT WAS MADE WAS
REGARDING ADDING THIS TO THE
AGENDA FOR NEXT MONTH NOT ON
ACTUALLY DOING ANY BUSINESS
WITH IT.
>> DID I HEAR THAT?
OH NO.
SO YOU KNOW, THE TIME IS
GETTING FOR THE BYLAWS
DISCUSSION.
SHOULD WE I WOULD MOTION THAT
WE TABLE THE DISCUSSION.
>> I WOULD I WOULD MOST OF THAT
TABLE UP UNTIL NEXT MONTH BUT
PUT IT ON THE AGENDA AS OUR
DISCUSSION ITEM TO AMEND THE
BYLAWS LATER ON TO HEAR YOU.
I'M SORRY YOUR GO AHEAD, LARRY.
>> DOES THAT DOES THAT MEAN
THAT WE WOULD THEN HAVE THE
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE BYLAWS AND
THEN IF WE HAD TO TAKE THE
DISCUSSION IN NOVEMBER WE WOULD
THEN TAKE THE TAKE THE VOTE THE
SAME MEETING OR WOULD WE BE
THEN PUSHING BACK THE VOTE IF
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE BYLAWS
IN THE REGULAR NOVEMBER MEETING
?
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT WE
WOULD STILL HAVE ELECTIONS NEXT
MONTH IF THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING.
BUT WE WOULD VOTE TO WORK OUT
THE BYLAWS.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE HAVE TO STILL
HAVE ELECTIONS ACCORDING TO THE
BYLAWS.
>> ALL RIGHT, GUYS.
AND WE COULD VOTE WE ARE
RUNNING OVER TIME.
SO I'M GOING TO GIVE
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE HIS TIME
TO SPEAK.
BUT THEN AFTER THAT WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO, YOU KNOW,
COMMUNICATE THIS ISSUE AFTER
THE FACT.
I DON'T WANT TO KEEP PEOPLE
OVER THE TABLE AT MY SUGGESTION
WOULD BE THAT WE HOPE WE HAVE A
NEW BUSINESS NEXT MONTH A
CONVERSATION AROUND BYLAWS.
IT CAN BE GENERAL BECAUSE THE
END RESULT MIGHT BE THAT WE
HAVE A BYLAWS COMMITTEE
CREATED TO SUSS OUT ANY
PARTICULAR CHANGES TO THE
BYLAWS WE HOLD ELECTIONS NEXT
MONTH AS YOU SHOULD AND THEN IF
WE WANT TO CHANGE THE BYLAWS TO
VOTE FOUR TERMS IN JUNE, THEN
THE PEOPLE THAT ARE IN THOSE
TERMS THAT ARE CURRENTLY THE
CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR FOR THAT
PERIOD OF TIME COULD COULD
POTENTIALLY RUN OR WE COULD
LOOK AT OTHER WE COULD LOOK AT
OTHER FOLKS RUNNING AND HAVING
THAT NEW ELECTION SCHEDULE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAPPENS.
BOARDS DO GO THROUGH CHANGING
WHEN THEY HOLD THEIR ELECTIONS
AND ALL OF THOSE THINGS.
SO I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO
MAKE THIS OVERLY COMPLICATED.
LET'S JUST HAVE THE DISCUSSION
NEXT MONTH AND LET'S GET SOME
FOLKS IN POSITIONS NOT ONLY FOR
THE NEXT HANDFUL OF MONTHS AND
GO FROM THERE.
ALEX, THIS IS JARED DIAMOND.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD
JUST LET THE DISCUSSION ON THE
AGENDA FOR NEXT MONTH AND THEN
TAKE OUR TIME AND ADJUST THE
BYLAWS ACCORDINGLY AND SET UP
TIME TO TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
I WOULD AGREE.
OK, SO WITH THAT ELECTION WILL
HAPPEN NEXT MEETING IS THAT
CORRECT?
THAT SHOULD BE CORRECT.
THAT WOULD BE MY UNDERSTANDING.
SO IF THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO ARE
INTERESTED FOR THE NEXT PERIOD
OF TIME, THE AMOUNT OF TIME
WHETHER IT'S A YEAR OR LESS
THAN WE WOULD THEY WOULD BE
ABLE TO NOMINATE THEMSELVES THE
NEXT MEETING I'M ASSUMING THAT
YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
>> ELECTIONS WILL HAPPEN AT THE
NEXT MEETING IF WE WOULD JUST
HAVE TO SEND KENNEDY INFO ON
WHO WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
FILLING WHAT POSITION AND WHO
WOULD WANT TO BE NOMINATED
.
>> HELLO.
YES, WE WOULD HAVE TO SEND
KENNEDY INFORMATION FOLKS ON
WHAT POSITION INDIVIDUALS WOULD
LIKE AND THEN FROM THERE THERE
WOULD BE AN ELECTION NEXT
MEETING BUT THEN WE WILL ALSO
HAVE THE DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
BYLAWS AS WELL.
BUT WE WE STILL NEED TO BE ABLE
TO SET UP A TIME TO HAVE, YOU
KNOW, LONGER DISCUSSION ABOUT
THE BYLAWS.
BUT TO ANSWER THE QUESTION IN
CONCLUSION, YES, THERE WILL BE
AN ELECTION NEXT MEETING IF
PEOPLE ARE INTERESTED IN
POSITIONS ON A TEMPORARY BASIS
,THEN PLEASE LET KENNEDY KNOW
YOUR NOMINATION AND OUR
INTEREST AND THEN AT THE NEXT
MEETING WE WILL HAVE ELECTIONS
TO FILL SOME OF THOSE SPOTS IF
PEOPLE ARE INTERESTED.
>> I SHOULD BE FOR CIVIL ACTION
FOR THE FULL TWO YEARS SINCE
IT'S